An architectural glass plant in Tanzania would soon be established by Keda Industrial Group, a Chinese company. The project is part of the company’s strategy to expand the variety of such construction materials in the African market and boost its market share. The company recently revealed that the plant would cost them a total of US$86.8 million. The plant is anticipated to have an annual output capacity of 600 tons of architectural glass. It will be constructed by Keda Industrial through the establishment of a local subsidiary. This is according to the Foshan-based company. In a year’s time, construction work should have been completed. Read also:Asphalt mixing plant with hot recycling system passes the 2 million ton mark According to the company, recent years have seen an increase in the demand for building materials on the African market as a result of a number of reasons, including population increase, rapid real estate development, and stable economic growth. Keda Industrial stated that it made the decision to build a glass factory in light of the total lack of glass production capacity in Tanzania and the surrounding countries. The company added that the products will be shipped to consumers in Tanzania. The products will also be exported to the bordering countries of Kenya, Uganda, and Zambia. According to the statement by Keda Industrial, the company will obtain loans totaling USD 52 million from financial institutions. The loans will be used to fund the project. In 2016, the company entered the construction material market in Africa. According to Keda Industrial, it currently has more than 14 ceramic product production plants in operation. It also has eight plants that are under construction in five African nations, including Tanzania. Keda Industrial Group manufactures and markets clean coal as well as gas technology systems for consumption by energy industries such as the paper, glass, non-ferrous metal processing, ceramics, chemistry, and glass industries.