The Saudi Port Authority (Mawani) has officially signed an agreement with the Jeddah Chamber of Commerce and Industry, for the Al Khumrah Integrated Logistics Park Project. The development’s location is in the south of Jeddah, with a total cost of about US $266 million. The Al Khumrah Integrated Logistics Park Project is well in alignment with the ambitions of the National Transport and Logistics Strategy (NTLS). Moreover, it plays a significant role towards realizing the outcomes of the National Industrial Development and Logistic Program (NIDLP). Both initiatives strive to transform the region into a world-leading platform, especially for logistics and supply chain activities. Read Also: Riyadh Konoz Box of Treasures mixed-use project launched in Saudi Arabia While commenting on the project, a company spokesman said that the project’s strives to offer optimum asset utilization. Quite impressively, the facility will feature a total of three zones, of which will feature shared warehouses and single warehouses. Additionally, the zones will feature medium-sized storage yards and on-demand warehouses alongside large storage yards. In addition to the aforementioned, the park will offer staff accommodation as well as state-of-the-art infrastructure such as green spaces and roads. The development will also have dedicated commercial, residential, and administrative use areas. Furthermore, a one-stop service center will be included. As a whole, the zones will help fulfill the requirements as well as the needs of exporters and importers. More especially when it comes to chilled and frozen goods, food commodities, multi-purpose cargo, and fragile goods. In the logistics sector, the Al Khumrah Integrated Logistics Park Project will potentially create over 10,000 direct and indirect job opportunities. Furthermore, it will strengthen Jeddah Islamic Port’s position as a major maritime hub that delivers top-tier services. The company spokesman further added that the logistics development will further bolster Mawani’s role as a key player in the national transportation ecosystem.