The final phase of construction for Norrsken Kigali House, the biggest entrepreneurial hub in Africa, recently began. Work on Phase 3, the last phase of construction, commenced a few days ago. The final phase costs Rwf 6 billion. It is said that the Norrsken Kigali House Phase 3 project is a cutting-edge office building that will change the look of the city’s central business district. Read also:Apple Westside office campus in Los Angeles receives construction approval A significant benefit to Rwanda’s economy is expected from the project’s capacity to accommodate established companies and budding entrepreneurs. Pascal Murasira, the Norrsken Kigali House Kigali’s Country Manager, spoke during the groundbreaking event. He stated that they were delighted to commence work on the Norrsken Kigali House’s final phase. He added that their commitment to establishing the biggest startup hub in Africa and a conducive environment for entrepreneurship in Rwanda is demonstrated by the transformative project. More than 1,200 members from more than 20 countries are housed in the existing Norrsken Kigali House structure. Pascal Murasira claimed that the project is a representation of their commitment to delivering outstanding construction projects that surpass their future partners’ expectations. It also represents their mission of helping entrepreneurs resolve the world’s biggest issues and foster the development of the African startup ecosystem. The 3,820 square meter, four-story new building will provide a 360-degree view of the city. The Rwandese firm Atelier will handle the design of the building. Also, HYGEBAT will execute the construction work. Construction will take at least a year to complete. Atelier founder Amin Gafaranga asserts that the house design, would also give the city a fresh feel. The design is in keeping with Rwanda’s objectives for a green infrastructure. Gafaranga stated that the Norrsken Kigali House was designed to be a building that not only looks beautiful but also feels great for those who would use it as a workspace.