The Moorebank Interstate Terminal Project in Australia has officially begun construction works. Its scope of works include the development of a container handling facility. Alongside the construction of a dedicated rail link to Port Botany. The Moorebank Interstate Terminal Project strives to enhance the resilience of Australia’s supply chain. Moreover, it also strives to provide thousands of local jobs as well as reduce transport emissions. The project has been funded by a $570 million boost from the Federal Government. Read Also Lumsden point port expansion project in Australia gets underway As a whole, the project will have the capacity to service about 1,800 meters long interstate trains. Quite impressively, the trains will each, be moving well up to 1,500 tons of consumer goods. As a result, the terminal will then position itself as a major interchange point for freight right along the east coast. Furthermore, the Moorebank Logistics Park (MLP) will replace well over 100 B-double trucks per train trip. Therefore, significantly reducing congestion on Australian roads. Meanwhile, it will simultaneously facilitate the potential increase in future freight volumes. While commenting on the project, the Federal Minister of Infrastructure, Transport, Regional Development, and Local Government said that its progress is a demonstration of the government’s commitment. Catherine King also said that the project will also enhance road safety as well as deliver better environmental outcomes. At an estimate, the site’s area is equivalent in size to the Sydney CBD, spanning over 240h. The entire MLP will feature an underway interstate terminal that serves Brisbane, Sydney, and Melbourne. Moreover, it will feature about 850,000 meters squared of state-of-the-art warehousing. It will also feature links to key roads, of which include the M7 as well as the M5. Since development works on the container handling facilities have already begun, the project has been confirmed to be right on schedule. Thus, by early 2024, the Moorebank Interstate Terminal Project is set to become fully operational.