Property developer and investment manager Goodstone Living select contractor McAleer & Rushe to construct at least 338 apartments at Dockside – its next-generation Build to Rent scheme in Leith, Edinburgh. On the 2.5-acre site, homes will be arranged across four apartment blocks. After purchasing the project in 2022, Goodstone Living’s specialised development team completely redesigned it as an electric-only development. Every apartment at Dockside will come equipped with an air source heat pump, securing the project when the electricity grid is decarbonised. Shane McCullagh, Contracts Director at McAleer & Rushe, said, “Dockside is a blatant example of how Goodstone and McAleer & Rushe are putting their shared commitment to having a positive impact on the communities in which we operate. Our community and skills approach and Goodstone’s social value strategy complement one another. They are both based on socioeconomic uplift, environmental protection, and sustainability. We will deliver the Build to Rent scheme in Leith in a way that has long-lasting benefits. Thus, we look forward to getting on the site. Read Also: Plans for The Lighthouse at Great Jackson Street, tallest structure outside of London, unveiled The waterfront development was designed by 3DReid Architects. It offers panoramic views and resident amenities like a rooftop lounge and dining, co-working spaces, and a fitness centre. Dockside also encompasses 1.3 acres of new public realm space. It features pocket parks and a publicly accessible boardwalk. This is created to link the Albert Docks, the historic industrial Docklands in the North of Leith, with Ocean Terminal. The terminal is a shopping, dining and leisure hub adjacent to the development. Plans are also in place to allow community organisations and businesses to utilise some of the available commercial space, providing the young and people from underrepresented backgrounds with access to educational, professional development, and training opportunities. Through its Community and Skills Action Plan, McAleer & Rushe will support the execution of Goodstone Living’s social value strategy.