The DART+ South West rail project’s plans will move forward thanks to an agreement with the Irish government. This project is being developed to extend DART trains from Dublin’s city centre to Hazelhatch and Celbridge train stations in County Kildare. It is part of a more significant expansion of DART services. Communities along the route, such as Islandbridge, Park West, Cherry Orchard, Clondalkin, Adamstown, Celbridge, and Hazelhatch, will receive a high-frequency and electrified rail service from it. A railway order (planning application) for DART+ South West will be approved by the Cabinet and submitted to An Bord Pleanála by the end of this month. There is reportedly 20 km of new electrified rail infrastructure on the DART+ South West line. DART + South West construction work is anticipated to start in 2025. This is after the final funding agreements and planning approval. This infrastructure is expected to be complete by the end of the decade. Read Also: Inverness Airport railway station opens to public In addition to doubling the rail track between Park West and Heuston, the project will also include the construction of a new station at Islandbridge called Heuston West. Along with the expanded route, it will also electrify the Phoenix Park Tunnel. This allows DART trains to operate between Hazelhatch/Celbridge and Connolly station (and beyond) and Heuston station. DART+ South West comes under the multi-billion euro DART+ Programme. It is said to treble the present DART rail network from 53km to 150km. It will also support the DART’s expansion to Drogheda in the north, Maynooth and the M3 Parkway in the west, and Hazelhatch and Celbridge in the southwestern direction. “The government’s approval of DART+ South West today highlights our commitment to investing in high-quality public transportation. This will also decarbonise Ireland’s transportation system,” said Eamon Ryan, Ireland’s Minister of Transport. Those who reside in the communities along the route will be transformed. This is because of this rail project’s fast, dependable, and frequent train service into Dublin.