Premium real estate developer, Sobha Realty announced the successful completion of the Waves Tower Project well ahead of schedule. The luxury, residential tower stands right within the waterfront district in its Sobha Hartland community. Moreover, the project’s developer said that it has already received its Building Completion Certificate (BCC). Construction works for the residential tower began in February 2021. Quite impressively the Waves Tower Project features a total of 35-storeys. Furthermore, its location is right in front of the 1.8-kilometer waterfront boardwalk in Sobha Hartland. It also includes a yoga and meditation zone, as well as a designated barbeque area. Additionally, it includes an infinity-edge swimming pool with a spectacular view of the Dubai Skyline alongside the waterfront. Read Also Deal signed for developmnt of Verde by Sobha in Jumeirah Lakes Towers, Dubai Officially setting a record, the project was able to complete its development works within 24 months. Moreover, it features Sobha’s signature quality throughout the project. As a result, its developer added that every single detail had been curated with precision. The development hosts an array of several elegant choices of apartment units. These include one bedroom, and one bedroom + Study units. Additionally, it also offers two bedroom, as well as two bedroom + a worker’s room. While commenting on the project, the Managing Director at Sobha Realty noted that the Dubai real estate will potentially experience strong expansion in 2023. Furthermore, the residential property segment will potentially witness a growth of about 40%. Therefore, Francis Alfred continued, the project aims to serve as a contribution to the growth. Additionally, the company also strives to contribute towards the growth through the acceleration as well as completion of its significant developments, especially in the city. As a whole, Sobha Realty strives to redefine the art of living through the delivery of luxury properties with exceptional quality.