Finnish construction contractor SRV has negotiated with property investment company Niam to build the Horisontti skyscraper in Kalasatama, Helsinki, Finland. According to the project, it will become Finland’s first office skyscraper. The 26-story structure will surpass all other office buildings in the nation in height. It will be Kalasatama’s fifth tower once it is finished. The office work will begin in April and is predicted to be done in the second quarter of 2025. Once finished, SRV will relocate its offices from the greater Helsinki area to Horisontti. Read Also: Construction of 31-floor Kompassi residential tower in Helsinki, Finland begins Niam and the City of Helsinki signed a contract for the property. SRV CEO and President Saku Sipola said: “It’s great to be able to start up the construction of this project with Niam. This has happened after a protracted period of joint development. The recent launch of Horisontti demonstrates that even in the current market environment, there is a need for a novel tower construction concept in the commercial real estate market. Antti Muilu, country manager for Niam, added: “We are delighted to acquire Kalasataman Horisontti. Together with SRV, we will support the transition to more environmentally friendly building development. This is in addition to sustainable property ownership.” “The location will provide tenants and guests with a distinctive experience and a reason to visit the business. Niam and SRV will construct a magnificent landmark structure through this project. Thus, it will satisfy users’ functional and qualitative needs both now and in the future.” The elevation of Horisontti will reach 111 metres. 11,500m2 of rentable office space will be available on floors five to 26 of the tower. Furthermore, there will be a restaurant on Horisontti’s 24th floor that claims to be the highest in the greater Helsinki area. The restaurant is about to start the tendering process. Horisontti skyscraper aims to secure an international LEED Platinum environmental certification.