The development of the largest satellite teleport facility in Doornkloof, Pretoria, was recently announced by Paratus, a Namibian based digital infrastructure company dedicated to transforming Africa via exceptional digital infrastructure and customer service. The teleport facility is scheduled to be completed in August 2023. It is said that Paratus has started work on its latest multimillion rand satellite teleport facility at Doornkloof, which is around 50 miles north of Johannesburg. Read also:Phase one construction of JB4, new hyperscale data center at Bredell Campus, South Africa, completed According to Paratus, the new facility would provide South African businesses as well as consumers with reliable and quality satellite connectivity, even during power outages. As specialized leaders in satellite communications in South Africa and the rest of the continent, Kallie Carlsen, managing director of Paratus South Africa, stated that their investment in the new teleport comes at a key moment since it will be able to guarantee a high quality connectivity. It would also be able to offer more services to consumers who need a reliable connectivity solution. This will also include load shedding. Although the facility’s specifications were not revealed, Paratus said that it will house infrastructure from other service providers and customers. Additionally, the teleport facility will be the group’s biggest satellite infrastructure project to date. Schalk Erasmus, the chief executive officer of Paratus Group, added that the facility is a huge investment for the group. It makes their offering in the region unrivalled and shows their strength for delivering high quality and smooth connectivity. Paratus entered South Africa in 2006 and acquired Maxwell Technology, a local communications provider, in 2016. In 2019, the company obtained a teleport in South Africa; however, the location was not revealed. According to Paratus, it has five teleports, three of which are owned and located in Angola, Namibia, and South Africa. In 2022,  OneWeb agreed to deploy a satellite gate way at Paratus’ teleport in Luanda, Angola.