if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');Construction is an evergreen industry, but even with that it is seeing unprecedented demand. Yahoo Finance statistics indicate that the industry will see 7.3% CAGR by 2030, that value rated at $14.41 trillion by 2030. While construction continues to grow, the labor market to match that will not necessarily keep pace – especially with all of the other pressures currently facing the wider system. With that in mind, construction planners have looked towards technology to take some of the burden, firstly in material use but then, also, in the world of planning and labor deployment. Sophisticated titanium Titanium is one of the most crucial elements in modern construction. Contractors buy titanium sheet for its resilience and longevity, providing significant solidity and resistance to weathering and erosion in environments globally. Titanium oxides are a crucial inclusion in paints and other coating products, and while a relatively small part of the overall construction image, they are crucial to a long and resilient finish. With Russia providing a large chunk of global titanium production and China protecting their own supply, it is becoming increasingly difficult for global construction firms to meet that demand. In the USA, one market restricting itself from Russian and Chinese titanium, innovation has led to the creation of titanium refurbishment facilities, according to Cardinal News. This will enable businesses to alter and reuse their titanium in a way to make them suitable once again for construction. Tackling extreme weather Aside from the need for sustainable and long-term material solutions, the construction industry is tackling the ever-present threat of weather. Weather, of course, is a major impediment to construction, and the rise in extreme weather is making it more difficult for projects to finish on time and with safety. According to Forbes, new technology is helping to push back against this rising risk. With 45% of construction projects delayed by weather, the use of artificial intelligence, IoT, BIM and cloud-based planning is helping construction managers to reduce disruption to a minimum and keep sites ticking over – by ensuring that planning is in place. Smart workforce organization That focus on planning may be crucial for the overall picture of building efficiency. It is absolutely the case that disruption from the supply chain has been one of the biggest impediments to quick and safe construction, and minimizing that is crucial. According to Geonews Weekly, the latter focus – on safety – is the most pressing, and there is good progress in that arena. The widening use of technologies such as sensors, wearables and IoT adoption in construction sites globally is improving the safety of workers and their productivity, too, giving rise to a much improved construction scene. While technological tools continue to help construction products finish on-time and with high quality, it’s in individual workers and planning where improvements have been most necessary. Looking at construction from this holistic view is crucial, and understanding existential risk is essential to making the industry safer and more productive even as demand increases.