if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_2',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');The United States of America is a country that brought modern aviation to the world. But, in most rankings of airport quality in the world, not one of the USA airports ranks among the Top 25. This is about to change, however, all thanks to U.S. Transportation Department (DOT) and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The two have reportedly set aside approximately $1 billion in grants for the improvement and upgrade of close to 100 airports in the country. The monies will be used to build new terminals, boost gate capacity, add air traffic control towers, jet bridges, new bathrooms, baggage claim belts and reconfigure security checkpoints. Also Read: Contract awarded for Ragusa-Catania highway project in Sicily, Italy The following is a list of some of the top USA airports that will benefit from the $1 billion airports grant. Denver International Airport, locally known as DIA, is the largest airport in the USA, spread over 33,917 acres of land. It is also the third-largest airport in the world, following King Fahd International Airport and Beijing Daxing International Airport (PKX). Currently, the airport has a total of six runways and one main terminal, Jeppesen Terminal, with a built-up area of more than 1.5 million square feet. It has three airside concourses and more than six million square feet of public space. Concourses A, B, and C have a total of 89 gates. From the $1 billion airports grant, DIA will receive $60 million that will be used for the construction of a new baggage handling system. The DFW opened for commercial operations in January 1974 with a total of four terminals. To date, the airport has a total of 5 terminals (A-E) and 182 gates, in addition to 7 runways. By 2025, the airport will have a 6th terminal 24 new gates to Terminal F and a newly renovated Terminal C. Under the new 1bn grant, Dallas-Fort Worth Airport will be getting $35 million. These will be used for the construction of a new zero-carbon electrical utility plant. The 11,609 acres airport has a hub-and-spoke layout with a large main terminal building. The latter is divided into two i.e. Terminal A, on the building’s north side, and Terminal B, on the building’s south side. Orlando International Airport has a total of four runways and four airside concourses. Airside 1 (gates 1-29), Airside 2 (gates 100-129), Airside 3 (gates 30-59), and Airside 4 (gates 60-99). The air sides are accessible via elevated people movers. $50 million will be provided to the Orlando International Airport to build four new gates. Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport, commonly as “Detroit Metro,” opened on September 1930 at the corner of Middlebelt Road and Wick Road in Romulus, Michigan. The airport has six runways, two terminals, and a total of 129 in-service gates. It also has maintenance facilities capable of servicing and repairing aircraft as large as the Boeing 747-400. The airport covers a total of 4,850 acres. Detroit Metropolitan Airport will get $49.6 million to fund new restrooms, baggage claim belts, and the replacement of some passenger boarding bridges. Other airports that will benefit from the grand include Los Angeles, Logan International, Orlando, and Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International. $50 million will be awarded to Los Angeles for the reconstruction of the terminal roadway system and reconfiguration of a central entrance. Logan International Airport on the other hand will receive $62 million for the renovation of the existing 1974 Terminal E facilities and the replacement of arrival roadways. $40 million will be provided to Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport to widen, update and modernize the 40-year-old Concourse D. Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport is the busiest airport in the country.