The Gambian government is set to benefit $33.7m from the European Union (EU), to strengthen its Gambia renewable energy project. The European group made this known on Tuesday, March 7. The funding consists of $8.4 million loan and a grant totalling $25.3 million. As a result, the project now has more than €100 million in financial support from the European Investment Bank and the European Union overall thanks to this new funding agreement. The Statement of Signature, relating to this grant agreement, was signed by Jutta Urpilainen, EU Commissioner for International Partnerships, Seedy Keita, Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs of the Republic of the Gambia, and Thomas Östros, EIB Vice-President. Also Read: Construction of Jambur solar power plant in Gambia launched Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs of the Republic of the Gambia, Seedy Keita said, “On behalf of The President of the Republic of the Gambia Adama Barrow and his Government, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to the European Union (EU) and the European Investment Bank (EIB) for their financial support. It proves once again that the EU and EIB are committed to the growth of the Gambia.” “Up to 1000 schools and 100 healthcare institutions will be “Solarized” as part of the initiative. Which will drastically change The Gambia’s electrical industry, especially in the remote parts of the nation. Additionally, it would reduce our carbon footprint by supplying beneficiaries in the health and education sectors with clean electricity. By 2025, we hope to have achieved the goal of providing energy to every Gambia resident,” he continued. The initiative will revolutionize rural areas’ access to electricity. And make sure that clean, dependable power is available for services like education and healthcare. Once operational, the Gambia renewable energy project will result in a one-fifth increase in the country’s energy supply. It also encourages the development of a new photovoltaic plant at Jambur, close to Banjul. As well as the improvement of the infrastructure for power transmission and distribution, in addition to expanding access to electricity in remote communities.