if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_2',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');O’Hare International Airport is set to receive $50M in Airport Terminal Program grant funds according to Mayor Lori E. Lightfoot. The funding comes from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Acts. It is reportedly the largest of its kind awarded to an American airport this year. With this money, Terminal 3 will strengthen its customer services, security measures, and accessibility for people with impairments. The $200 million redevelopment at Terminal 3 is a part of O’Hare 21, Chicago’s ambition for an airport fit for the twenty-first century. Federal funds and airline fees and levies will cover the remaining cost of the Terminal 3 project. With a target completion date of 2025, the building is expected to start this summer. It will be carried out in stages to minimize disruption to terminal operations. Construction of O’Hare 21 is still going forward. Also Read: Construction breaks ground on The Regal Mile Studios Campus 1 in Chicago, Illinois The freshly rebuilt and extended Terminal 5, which has 10 extra gates, more eating and shopping options, and a new Delta Sky Club lounge, was formally opened by Mayor Lightfoot last month. Meanwhile, construction is still being done on a brand-new, six-story parking garage for Terminal 5. It will more than double the terminal’s parking capacity. Additionally, it will increase the ability to provide a variety of short- and long-term parking options, similar to those offered at the airport’s main terminals. “With millions of passengers coming through each year, O’Hare is one of the busiest airports in the whole globe. This investment is essential for enhancing Terminal 3’s accessibility, security, and energy efficiency. Furthermore, it supports the CDA’s ongoing initiatives to upgrade and enlarge O’Hare. We will be better able to satisfy the resurgent travel demand and guarantee that our citizens and visitors have one of the best passenger experiences in the world thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill passed by the Biden-Harris Administration, according to Mayor Lightfoot.