if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_2',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');A project team has been set to build a new Trent River crossing in West Bridgford. Infrastructure company Balfour Beatty will team up with Pick Everard to deliver the project for Nottingham City Council. Pick Everard is a renowned independent property, construction, and infrastructure consultancy firm. The project will involve building a specific pedestrian and bicycle bridge over the River Trent. It is intended to reduce traffic by giving locals a new transportation option when commuting to work. The Trent River crossing project will simplify access to green areas for recreation and wellness. The bridge will link the Lady Bay area in West Bridgford with the Trent Basin waterside housing estate on the north side of the river, closer to the city centre. The SCAPE Civil Engineering Framework has named Balfour Beatty as the principal contractor. Additionally, the SCAPE Consultancy Framework has named Pick Everard, a member of Perfect Circle, to provide project management and quantity surveying services. Read Also: Refurbishment work starts on Chepstow Viaduct bridge in the UK. “The formal appointment of our consultancy team and Balfour Beatty as the principal contractor is a significant milestone for Nottingham City Council,” said Matt Hall, national director at Pick Everard. As stakeholder engagement continues, it is essential to communicate the available social and transportation benefits for this project. It is the city’s flagship initiative.” “Following our involvement in demolition, public realm, and new building work as part of the Broad Marsh element of Nottingham’s Southside regeneration, Pick Everard is building on a successful ongoing relationship with the council. Thus, they will assist in facilitating its programme of citywide improvements.” Feasibility studies and work to determine the precise location of the proposed structure have already been completed. Thus, they will submit a planning application in the early summer of this year. Government funding was received through the Transforming Cities programme during the design concept stage. Thus, the budget has contributed to the Trent River crossing project momentum.