The topping off of 160 N Morgan, Sterling Bay first residential structure in Fulton Market, was recently celebrated. The Sterling Bay and Ascentris project, which is situated between the CTA Morgan L station and W. Randolph St., received finance from CIBC Bank USA. The tower, which will be built by bKL Architecture, will be 350 feet tall and 29 stories high. 282 apartments, including studios, convertibles, one-bedroom, two-bedroom, and three-bedroom apartments, will be produced as part of the project. In addition to providing tenants with 153 bike parking spots and 89 automobile parking spaces, the building will feature 2,600 square feet of retail space on N. Morgan Street. Also Read: $385M acquired for construction of 710 Broadway development in Santa Monica, California Tailored to the young, professional workforce in the area. Both an outdoor rooftop pool deck with cabanas and an amenity terrace with fireplaces, bar seating, and grill stations are available at 160 N. Morgan. Also, residents will benefit from a state of the art fitness centre, an outdoor fitness deck, and a training room for private and group sessions. A resident lounge, a kitchen/bar area with industrial appliances, and coworking spaces. These spaces will have private meeting rooms are also provided in the interior communal spaces. Furthermore, covered outdoor dog run and a pet washroom are available to dog owners. Sterling Bay will offer 28 apartments (10%) on-site to satisfy the ARO requirement of 20% affordable units, with a unit mix of 9 convertibles, 6 studios, 8 one-beds, 4 two-beds, and 1 three-bedroom unit. $5.26 million will be given to the SL Solar Lofts at 2548 S Federal Street in the South Loop as a fee in place of the remaining units. There will be 28 affordable units and 16 market-rate ones in that environmentally friendly and energy-efficient structure. Along with BOWA Construction, Walsh Construction has been constructing the structure since April 2022, focusing on its upward rise. Pre-leasing will start in July, and tenants should receive their first deliveries in September.