if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_2',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');The development of the $500 million Donald C Tillman Advanced Water Purification Facility in Los Angeles is moving forward. Recently Los Angeles Sanitation & Environment, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power made a new appointment. Jacobs People & Places Americas Solutions was appointed for the progressive design-build of the facility. According to Jacobs, the scope of work includes taking charge of the design. Additionally, it involves obtaining permits, and building, operating, and commissioning the facility. Donald C Tillman Advanced Water Purification Facility in Los Angeles aims to purify more than 15 million gallons of water each day. This will be achieved by employing cutting-edge treatment techniques like microfiltration, reverse osmosis, ultraviolet light, and advanced oxidation. Also Read: Implementation of Los Angeles Cypress Equity Investments Echo Park Multifamily Project to Begins This is one of the largest potable reuse projects in the nation. The project is a component of the City of Los Angeles’ long-term water management goal to entirely reuse its water sources. The aim is to purify water that may be used to replenish groundwater via the Hansen Spreading Grounds. The plant will thus process wastewater from the current Donald C. Tillman Water Reclamation Plant. The project got funding of around $81 million from the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act program. It was offered long-term, inexpensive loans for water projects of regional and national significance. This is how WIFIA promotes investment in water infrastructure in the United States. “Water scarcity is a global problem that is getting worse. As Ron Williams, senior vice president of Jacobs People & Places Americas Solutions segment, put it, “Taking this innovative and collaborative approach to tackle water shortages in Los Angeles offers a safe, sustainable, and effective way to manage water resources and address water scarcity issues in the state. With more than 25 years of experience in the water design-build sector and more than 150 completed design-build projects and programs, the Dallas-based construction services organization.