The M1 Pacific Motorway Extension Project has officially awarded development contracts for its southern and northern sections. The awarding of the contracts comes right after the project received approval under national environment law by the Federal and New South Wales Governments. The John Holland Gamunda Australia Joint Venture received the project’s development contract for its southern section. In total, the section covers an area of 10 kilometers. Moreover, it extends from Black Hill to Tomago. Meanwhile, the Seymour Whyte Constructions received the project’s development contract for its northern section. In total, it covers an area of five kilometers, that bypasses Heatherbrae. Read Also VIC Metro Tunnel in Australia achieves key milestone Quite impressively, the $2.1 billion project will extend from the M1 Pacific Motorway by a total of 15 kilometers from Black Hill to Raymond Terrance. It will also include a 2.6-kilometer-long bridge over the Hunter River and the New England Highway. As a whole, the project is jointly funded with a contribution of $1.68 billion from the Australian Government. On the other hand, the New South Wales Government has invested about $420 million. Upon completion by mid-2028, the M1 Pacific Motorway Extension Project will create more reliable as well as efficient journeys. In fact, it will bypass five sets of traffic lights. Moreover, it will potentially remove well over 25,000 vehicles a day from key merge and congestion points. More especially between Maitland and Newcastle. While commenting on the project, the New South Wales Regional Transport and Roads Minister said that the New South Wales Government strives to build infrastructure that will enable the state to keep moving forward. Sam Farraway also said that the project strives to create better access for key employment areas. Additionally, it plans to support freight servicing the Hunter Valley mining industry, the Port of Newcastle, and interstate freight. As a result, the project will provide regional, national as well as economic benefits.