The Tria Project in Dubai has officially appointed its main contractor. The residential tower’s location is right within the Dubai Silicon Oasis (DSO). Moreover, the $140.2 million luxury tower is under the development of Dubai-based property developer and real estate service provider, Deyaar Development. In just January, 2023, the company announced its successful handover of well over 2,200 units across four districts of its Midtown development. While commenting on the project, Deyaar said that the 32-storey integrated development will feature a range of exquisite residential options. These include studios alongside one, two, and three-bedroom apartments. Furthermore, the residential development will also include duplexes, penthouses as well as townhouses. Read Also Main works construction contract for Cavalli Tower in Dubai Marina awarded The project was designed and developed with wellness in mind. Thus, it will provide residents with certain features such as brand-new appliances energy-efficient, and smart-home solutions. Moreover, it will also feature resort-style and fitness amenities including, a gymnasium, steam, and sauna rooms, swimming pools, and a clubhouse. Additionally, it will also include, a yoga pavilion, an outdoor cinema, squash, and paddle courts as well as landscape greenery. With a total cost of Dh515 million, the project will also feature panoramic views of Dubai’s cityscape. Quite impressively, the Tria Project In Dubai spans a total built area of about 1 million square feet. Furthermore, it will link with major highways, of which include the Al Ain Road and the sheikh mohammed bin zayed road. The Senior Vice President of Projects & Commercials at Deyaar said that the project serves as a significant milestone. Eng. Ayman A. al Hammadi further said that the selection process for the main contractor was done so thoroughly with a priority focus on the highest quality, health, and safety standards. By 2025, the project aims to have successfully completed its development works.