Locale Hospitality announced its expansion into California with the opening of Locale Menlo Park within Presidio Bay’s Springline. The most eagerly awaited mixed-use development in the Bay Area is this one. The business is a well-known name in the management of short-term and long-term apartment-style lodging. The sophisticated community will have hotel-like rental houses with large layouts, high ceilings, and opulent finishes, Springline. Furthermore, it will house 15 one- and two-bedroom units under the management of the tech-forward hospitality organization. By working with Locale, Presidio Bay, a company that invests in and develops commercial real estate, is bringing much-needed flexible housing to the Silicon Valley region. Additionally, the burgeoning neighbourhood within Springline, has been dubbed “Sand Hill Road 2.0.” Also Read: Inglewood Rail project in California receives US$407mn in state funding Beyond the furnished residences, Locale Menlo Park guests will have access to the community’s activated indoor and outdoor spaces. Further, a resort-style pool, golf simulator, and co-work-style lounge. Canteen Café – a wine bar located off The Residences lobby by Menlo Park local Chef Greg Kuzia-Carmel. The Springline Plaza also hosts onsite experiences like outdoor fitness classes and movie nights for both Springline Residents and locals. Springline will soon be anchored by a roster of must-visit restaurants, featuring outposts of San Francisco favourites. These include Che Fico, Burma Love, Barebottle Brewing and Andytown Coffee Roasters. “Springline has already established itself as the future of Menlo Park and a world-class destination for the future of the office, modern living, dining and entertainment. Through Locale, we are adding another layer to our offerings by attracting modern travellers and renters seeking a more flexible alternative to traditional hotels and vacation rentals. We predict strong demand from both professionals and consumers who will no longer have to sacrifice their experience for convenience,” said Kabir Seth, Principal at Presidio Bay.