Mauritania has started measures to establish a school of mines and hydrocarbons in Nouakchott, for technical education and vocational training. The Mauritanian Ministry of Housing, Urban Planning and Territorial Development, which is in charge of carrying out this project, acquired funding for the school’s construction as part of the execution of its budget. In order to achieve this, it issued a global request for proposals. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here “The Ministry of Housing, Town Planning and Regional Development is soliciting sealed proposals from qualified candidates. Who meet the qualifications required for the construction of the School,” the department’s memo said. Also Read: Plans underway for construction of new commercial business parks in Mauritius On September 8, the Council of Ministers adopted the draft decree establishing the school. The Council had then indicated that, “The purpose of opening this school is to broaden the training options available. By adding new courses in the mining, oil, and gas sectors. As well as expanding the program’s capacity for enrollment, educating and integrating the country’s workforce, and luring investment to these crucial sectors.” The single-lot request for proposals, which was published on January 4th, remains open until February 20, 2023. However, the tendering company will have 18 months to complete the work after being chosen. The largest mining and gas project in the nation is the production of natural gas from a joint field between Mauritania and Senegal. Which is being managed by the American firm Kosmos and the British corporation British Petroleum. Graduates of this school will be integrated into this project. Furthermore, it should be noted that Senegal, the other nation affected by the school of mines and hydrocarbons project, began building on its school that will be in charge of preparing the workforce as part of this initiative as of 2020. The Senegalese government released 4 million USD in conjunction with the ADB for the school in Saint-Louis