The remaining two A52 junctions in UK at Nottingham Knight and Wheatcroft will be designed and built by GFJV. Work is scheduled to begin in September 2024 and end in 2026 or 2027. The joint venture has already upgraded four other A52 junctions as part of a £13.2 million contract. Nick Medlicott, senior project manager for National Highways in the Midlands, said: “Today’s announcement that we have selected GFJV as our main contractor on the last phase of our A52 Improvements Project marks an exciting turning point in a transition that we know will improve travel for drivers and promote economic growth. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here “With an established team in place and an ongoing collaborative relationship with our main contractor, we are entering this last stage of the upgrade works in a strong position. Additionally, I want to express my gratitude to the neighborhood for its cooperation and patience throughout our preliminary work. Read Also: Implementation of Sheybarah resort project kick off with development works National Highways has already completed improvement work at the 2017-opened Nottingham Road and Cropwell Road junctions. The four remaining smaller junctions—Bingham, Stragglethorpe, and Silverdale—began construction in 2021 and are now all finished. Beginning in January 2022, work at Gamston is expected to end this spring. “We are looking forward to continuing our successful relationship with National Highways to complete the last component in an integrated series of works that will have a positive impact on travel in this region,” said Steve Haviland, Partnership Leader at Griffiths Farrans Joint Venture. “High-profile projects like this one show how crucial civil engineering is in offering a valuable, functional road infrastructure. We are creating a network that will support transportation and logistics and save lives. It will also enable the local economy to expand for years to come. Thus, it will be able to reduce congestion and enhance safety with this work.