Julphar Residences on Reem Island, Abu Dhabi, has been launched by the developer RAK Properties. The brand-new project features a total of 266 apartments. Moreover, the project features exquisite and high-quality furnishings, alongside two swimming pools. The 23-floor building brings forth ready-to-live-in homes to the bustling city. Furthermore, the homes range from attractive studios to one and two-bedroom units. Additionally, the Julphar Residences Project includes a limited number of three-bedroom apartments. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Read Also: Main contractor appointed for Cordoba Bloom Living community in Abu Dhabi Within the residency, each apartment allows for plenty of natural sunlight. As a result, they include floor-to-ceiling windows, further offering inspiring and panoramic views of the capital’s skyline. The studio apartments measure 41 square meters. Meanwhile, the three-bedroom units measure 181 square meters. The homes also include a private balcony. Alongside the two swimming pools, residents will be able to enjoy an indoor as well as outdoor children’s play area. Additionally, residents will also have access to a well-equipped gym. While speaking about the Julphar Residences Project on Reem Island, the CEO of RAK Properties said that the project strives to offer a unique living experience. More especially, one that enables residents the chance to enjoy a great residential location within the heart of Abu Dhabi. Sameh al muhtadi further added that the project features thoughtfully-designed homes. Moreover, the project also features amenities that complement the ideal lifestyle. As it stands, the developer is one of the largest listed property developers within Ras Al Khaimah. RAK Properties was established in 2005 and boasts an impressive portfolio. Thus far, the company has been responsible for the development of well over 3,000 residential units. Additionally, the company has also been responsible for the development of 25,000 meters squared of retail space as well as 35,000 meters squared of office space.