The groundbreaking of a luxury mixed use apartment community dubbed Modera Parkside in Atlanta took place recently near the citys esteemed Piedmont Park. The national developer, Mill Creek Residential intends to build the new 32 story highrise to meet the NGBS Silver certification standards. According to Mill Creek officials this project will be the company’s ninth Modera brand across metro Atlanta. Mill Creek’s senior managing director, Patrick Chesser, praised the location of the new Modera Parkside tower. Chesser pointed out that the property will be located on the very edge of high-rise zoning. Therefore, he said the project would be able to preserve the views of the Atlanta skyline, Piedmont Park, and the energy of east Midtown. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Also Read US$ 61M+ Loan Secured for UNI Tower Project in Miami, Florida Construction on the Modera Parkside is taking place at 180 10th Street between Piedmont Avenue NE and Juniper Street NE. The 32 story tower will accommodate 361 apartment units in total, as well as a street level retail component. Additionally, the project also provides convertible home offices to cater to remote workers. The developer expects the first first set of tenants to start moving in by early 2025. Modera Parkside will feature a mix of studio, one, two, and three-bedroom units, including studio layouts for convertible home offices. Luxury amenities featured at the property include a rooftop pool deck, skyline club room and Full Swing golf simulator. In addition, residents will enjoy access to outdoor dining experiences, raised fire pits, dedicated dog parks, and a pet spa. The apartments will be designed with nine foot plus ceilings, wooden plank flooring, tile backsplashes, and private patios or balconies. Remote workers at Modera Parkside in Atkanta will have rooms furnished with all necessary expandable furniture from Ori. Therefore, the studio homes will contain pull down desks and disappearing ceiling mounted beds. Convertible desks will be available in some selected two bedroom units. What’s more the property also offers an internet cafe, coworking spaces and private workstations will be set up with gigabit Wi-Fi. Controlled-access garage parking will be available for residents, along with spacious EV charging stations and dedicated bike storage.