The implementation of a new project with the working name Alta Addison in Colorado has officially begun under Wood Partners. The neighborhood will begin pre-leasing at the end of 2023 and open in early 2024. The community will include 186 apartment homes once it is finished. There will be one, two, and three-bedroom floor designs carefully created. Every house will have enough room for tenants to utilize as an office or flex space. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Furthermore, Alta Addison in Colorado will be completely furnished with high-end features like stainless steel appliances, and quartz countertops. Moreover, tile backsplashes, 42″ cabinets, full-sized washers and dryers, and wood-style flooring. Hord Coplan Macht, the project’s principal architect, drew influence from the Rocky Mountains while designing the community’s façade. Residents of the Alta Addison in Colorado will benefit from a number of public indoor and outdoor attractions, including the luxury Park Meadows and Southlands Mall, the Arapahoe County Fairgrounds, Bally’s Arapahoe Park Horse Track, the Aurora and Cherry Creek Reservoirs, and several golf courses. Also read: Project for Development of Fillmore Office Building in Denver, Colorado, in the Offing The future residents will have quick access to important employment centers like the Denver Tech Center, Buckley Airforce Base, and Fitzsimons Medical Campus as well as a direct route to Denver International Airport thanks to the development’s location at 7399 South Addison Court, which is next to E-470. Walter Armer, Managing Director of Wood Partners said, “We’re excited to formally break ground on our first project in the City of Aurora. To make sure that this not only fit but also improved the area, there was a tremendous amount of collaboration with the neighbors and City. We are excited to offer a high-quality, affordable housing choice that will let residents fully enjoy what Aurora and the local areas have to offer.”