The Summit Convention Center in Seattle, North America’s first high-rise convention center, has finally opened its doors. The facility is located where the former King County Metro bus stop used to be, across from the Paramount Theater. Dow Constantine, the executive of King County, acknowledged that getting rid of the county’s buses was an important step in having the new building completed. So that this structure might emerge from that hole in the ground, Constantine stated, “We conveyed a big urban building site.” Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here The Summit and the historic Arch building are located one and a half blocks apart. Together they cover 1.5 million square feet and form a campus designed to usher in the future of meetings and conventions. The Summit increases the convention center’s capacity by double. The venue’s event space could accommodate many football fields and is 14 floors high.  A 60,000 square foot ballroom, the largest between this location and San Francisco and Chicago, according to Finneran. Also Read: West Seattle Bridge construction almost complete in Washington The board of directors of SCC stated that the construction of a second facility might significantly boost economic activity in Washington. The SCC’s size, according to Frank Finneran, head of the board, sets it apart from other convention centers. According to the estimate, the Center turned down more than 300 possible events between 2012 and 2015. This is because there was not enough room for them. A ribbon-cutting ceremony for the new structure that is enlarging the Seattle Convention Center was attended by Gov. Jay Inslee and a large number of other officials and dignitaries. Speaking in front of the audience, Inslee emphasized that only people were still needed for the Summit to succeed. “We’re on the rebound, we’re coming back from COVID, all we need is people,” he said. That’s all we need in Seattle to ensure that this will succeed. And that’s essentially what this structure will let us achieve. We are ecstatic about the additional prospects that Summit and Arch will bring to our clients, the community, and the industry. According to SCC President and CEO Jeff Blosser, the Seattle Convention Center is happy to expand its relationship to people who live, visit, or work downtown and make more space available to event planners.