The CS for Health, Susan Wafula, revealed the government’s plans to build a modern, 2,000-bed multi-specialty Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MTRH), at Kiplombe. She said that the move is part of ongoing reforms aimed at improving access to quality, affordable healthcare in the country. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Read also:Construction of blood bank at Arua regional referral hospital in the pipeline Wafula stated that the facility’s designs are complete. According to her, the government is looking for a suitable funding mechanism to begin the project. The CS commented during a recent visit to the hospital in Eldoret, when she had a conversation with CEO Dr. Wilson Aruasa. Wafula commended the hospital’s management for its outstanding performance. It is said that the performance led to the facility being designated the Health Ministry’s best semi-autonomous government agency for the past six years in the performance management system. She added that the Ministry of Health will handle the budgetary requirements raised by MTRH management. This is to ensure that MTRH meets all of her staff, training, equipment, and also other needs. She stated that this would elevate Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital to a high pedestal. This is due to its contribution to the Kenyan people’s achievement of universal health care. The hospital’s construction is scheduled to be completed in the coming one and a half years. She stated that the ministry will also help with staffing and equipment. Wafula said that in an attempt to reduce healthcare costs, the government has initiated huge governance changes through the Ministry of Health. This include the NHIF and KEMSA as targets. The government, according to the CS, has also combined a number of programs. They  include the Linda Mama program and the expected augmentation of the health insurance subsidy program for the poor and most vulnerable to five million poor households over the coming three years. According to Dr. Aruasa, the hospital serves as the center for 22 counties. Additionally, MTRH handles patients from other countries. He also added that it is still important to ongoing health reforms. The CEO cited the MTRH Nawiri Recovery and Skills Project. It offers opportunities for mental health patients to learn economic development skills. The CEO claimed that the facility has carried out innovative concepts to help address current difficulties.