Plans are in the pipeline for the construction of a 495-unit residential complex dubbed Residences on Granite in Boston, Massachusetts. Recently, ZOM Living multifamily developer reached an agreement to purchase a 9-acre lot for the project from Simon Property Group for the project. The property costs about $20 million and its location is between the mall and Lakeside Drive in the city of Braintree. However, ZOM will need approval from both the Braintree Town Council and Planning Board to proceed with the project. According to ZOM’s CEO Jim Dunlop, the company has submitted a Planned Unit Development District for the site to the City. He is hopeful that the PUD will be approved by the end of the year. If all goes as planned, construction on the Residences on Granite will commence in 2024. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Also Read DMA to develop Arbor Park Apartments in Austin, Texas The design plan for the Residences on Granite includes two five-storey buildings, which will both have separate parking garages. One building will be a 315-unit residential complex, while the second building will be a 180-unit “active adults” apartment. The developer also intends to set aside 10% of the units in both buildings as income-restricted units. ZOM selected the lot next to South Shore Plaza since it has no local residents who might object to the project. The company also looked at other areas of Boston like Allston and Dorchester Avenue before making its final decision. Another benefit of the Residences on Granite’s location is its proximity to Boston, I-93, and Braintree’s commercial district. Dunlop pointed out that the project’s site was an ideal spot for new housing projects. Peter Forman, the South Shore Chamber of Commerce CEO, spoke in favor of the Residences on Granite development. Forman mentioned that his organization has not taken a formal position on ZOM’s proposal. However, he also said the project aligns with the type of residential projects their organization typically supports. Forman further stated that incorporating housing into retail was a good strategy, which will help attract more young workforce to Boston.