Construction is set to begin at Stanford University’s Graduate School of Education (GSE) near the school’s main quad. The development will be home to the Stanford Accelerator for Learning, a central initiative of the Stanford Vision. For the first time, the instructors, students, and staff of the school will assemble in one place at the newly rebuilt GSE. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here As part of the project, the ancient Education Building at 485 Lasuen Mall will undergo a comprehensive refurbishment. A new structure that will complement the existing Education Building will also be built at 505 Lasuen Mall. The university’s third historic structure, the Barnum Center for Family and Community Partnerships, which has previously served as the university’s candy store, career center, and bookstore, completes the campus. The Barnum family name will continue to be attached to this structure. Upon completion, the new Stanford University’s Graduate School of Education (GSE) will have more than 150,000 square feet of teaching, gathering, conference, and community spaces combined. Further, the development will offer plenty of chances for experimentation and exploitation of cutting-edge methodologies. Additionally, it will offer technologies to promote learning. The Mary Bell Floyd Memorial Garden will be one of the special features of the 13,500-square-foot courtyard. The garden is an outdoor classroom and garden intended to be in bloom all year long. Furthermore, it will connect the three buildings. This courtyard is anticipated to become a landmark area on campus. It is expected that the construction will take roughly 2.5 years to complete. According to Stanford President Marc Tessier-Lavigne, “the science of learning is an area of rapid discovery, with promising potential to provide egalitarian, accessible, and effective learning for all.” Also Read: University of Utah Spencer Fox School of Medicine project breaks ground Dan Schwartz, dean of the Stanford Graduate School of Education and the Nomellini & Olivier Professor in Educational Technology, said, “This is an exciting milestone in our journey to create a space worthy of the work we do preparing teachers and education leaders, conducting research, and partnering with schools and other education-focused organizations.”