Construction of the Karis Cold storage facility in Rock Hill, South Carolina, has commenced. The facility will be the first in the region to draw multiple users in the food industry to York County. Especially since the project’s site is at a strategic location along the Interstate 77 corridor. The location of the Karis Cold storage facility in Rock Hill is also about 27 miles south of Charlotte, North Carolina. Therefore, the facility is capable of reaching the entire Southeast and beyond, which helps connect the site to millions of customers. The developer, Karis Cold expects the facility to be set for delivery by the first quarter of 2024. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Also Read Lovett Industrial to develop 610 Business District in Houston The CEO of Karis Cold, Jake Finley, pointed out that Charlotte has been on his company’s radar since 2018. He said this was a major influence in choosing the site location for their Karis Cold storage project. According to Finley, Charlotte is one of the top industrial hubs in the U.S. Therefore, he said the company saw a strategic investment opportunity to develop the region’s only speculative cold storage facility. While on the other hand, the project also benefits from South Carolina’s state and local employment resources. Upon completion, the Karis Cold storage facility will feature a warehouse and build-to-suit office spaces spanning 40 acres. The 277,785 square foot cold storage spec facility will be furnished with convertible freezers and 50’ clear heights. Other amenities provided at the facility include 28 dock doors with two drive-in doors and 47 trailer parking stalls. It also gives future tenants a screen to 147 regular parking spaces. The developer has awarded JLL the exclusive leasing assignment for the Karis Cold storage facility. The JLL Managing Directors leading the marketing and leasing efforts include Spencer Yorke and John Cashion and Vice President Rich Grieder. Spencer Yorke of JLL also praised the location of the Karis Cold storage facility. Yorke said the location offers access to a skilled workforce and close proximity to the Port of Charleston. Therefore, he said it would be attractive to logistics users interested in expanding or establishing their footprint in metro Charlotte.