The construction of the East Kensington Viking Mills luxury apartment in Pennsylvania is well underway. Developed by Chatham Bay Group, the project is located at 2019-53 E. Boston Street. It involves the conversion of the old maze of artisan workshops, recording studios, and gallery spaces. The project also calls for the removal of the one-story industrial structure that now stands on the south side of the property and the construction of a six-story apartment complex with 100 additional units, a basement, and a roof deck in its stead. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Also Read: University of Pittsburgh Pitt Life Sciences Building in Pennsylvania opened The roof of the old structure will also be replaced with amenity space and a new roof deck at the site’s northernmost portion. This renovated building, which formerly housed artist studios, will hold 78 flats bringing the total units of the East Kensington Viking Mills luxury apartment in Pennsylvania to 178. These will be a mix of studios renting for an average of $1,550, one-bedroom apartments renting for under $2,000, and two-bedroom apartments renting for over $2,000 per month. Other than the apartment units, East Kensington Viking Mills luxury apartment in Pennsylvania will feature top-notch amenities including infrared saunas, a lap pool, a 2,000-square-foot gym, and a pickleball court. According to city records, Duffy and his business partner Jay Freebery paid $9.6 million on August 29 for the existing site, which is designated for both residential and commercial usage. The cost of the already-started work is estimated by Chatham Bay to be between $45 million and $47 million. Construction was supposed to begin by the end of 2022. Duffy claimed there was a three-month delay since the previous owners “misrepresented” the building’s condition when they were selling it. “We wanted to make it the best project [near] Fishtown,” said the team. From top to bottom, it will feature a resort-style amenities package, according to Patrick Duffy, CEO of Chatham Bay Group. “Further, we were meant to be inheriting a vacant structure. It was a total disaster. Everything the sellers were expected to do was misrepresented. We’re currently battling him in court. On October 14, 2019, E. Boston St. LLC (Chatham Bay) and Viking Mill Associates filed a lawsuit in municipal court.