Gateway Development Commission(GDC) is working towards building the Manhattan side of the Hudson River rail tunnel project in New York. A $292 million federal grant will fund construction of the concrete casing for the box tunnel. However, this amount is just half of the entire $600 million cost for the new tunnel. Leaders at GDC include representatives from New York, New Jersey and the Amtrak company, which owns the tunnel and rail line. The non-profit entity intends to build a new tunnel which will carry trains in and out of Penn Station beneath Hudson Yards. In addition to this, the Hudson River rail tunnels will also serve as a critical component of the Gateway Tunnel project. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Also Read Northern Michigan passenger rail begins 2nd planning phase Overall, the Gateway project will cost about $30 billion in total and GDC expects it to wrap up by 2030. Upon completion the project, will make four tracks available for trains running between Newark and New York. The development will add several new tracks and bridges will be available west of Secaucus. Additionally the Gateway project will involve renovating two older tracks which were first built in 1910. Sen. Chuck Schumer said the Hudson River rail tunnel project would commence in the coming months. The project is one major component of the Gateway Program which consists of three main elements. It will involve construction on the Hudson Yards right-of-way preservation project, and a new Hudson Tunnel. Lastly, the project also covers the rehabilitation and modernization of the existing North River tunnel. The tunnel will have a new two-track rail along the Northeast Corridor from the Bergen Palisades in New Jersey to Manhattan. The first major construction step for the Hudson River tunnel component involves building the concrete box tunnel. According to Gateway Program’s spokesman, Stephen Sigmund, the westbound concrete tunnel casing from Penn Station to Tenth Avenue is now complete. Therefore, Sigmund said the federal funding will help extend the concrete tunnel casing from Tenth Ave. to west of Eleventh Ave.