Trammell Crow Co. (TCC) has partnered with CBRE Investment to build phase I of their Jackson 85 Business Park in Georgia. Through one of CBRE’s investment funds, TCC acquired a 287-acre site along Interstate 85 in Jackson County for the project. The partners recently broke ground on the 2.3 million square foot corporate park which offers much needed logistics space. TCC’s Managing Director, Mark Dishaw, mentioned that the demand for high-end logistics space continues to grow in the Atlanta suburbs. He also said this demand is especially high around the Jackson 85 Business Park’s location, which is within the northeast submarket. According to Dishaw, TCC has already started to capitalize on this high demand with other nearby projects in Newnan, Ga. Also Read Lovett Industrial to develop 610 Business District in Houston In addition to the Jackson 85 Business Park, TCC’s other projects include the Jefferson Mill Business Park and Innovation Business Center. Dishaw said the company will build on the successes of previous projects and develop the best product for Jackson 85’s location. TCC expects Phase I of the project to reach completion by the first quarter of 2024. However, Phase two is likely to commence by mid 2024 and its delivery date is set for 2025. Wilson Hull & Neal Real Estate will handle all necessary leasing arrangements for the project. Phase I of Jackson 85 Business Park, will feature two cross dock facilities spread across 1.5 million square feet. The first building will span 538,450 square feet, while the second building will offer 1,001,000 square feet. On the other hand, the second phase will offer a single 713,050 squarefoot cross-dock facility. All three buildings featured in the project will include amenities such as, 185’ to 190’ deep concrete exterior truck courts. Additionally, future tenants will also have access to 40’ clear heights, ample power, ESFR fire sprinklers, and R-19 insulation. Mary Lang, the Head of Logistics Strategies at CBRE, said her company was proud to partner with TCC on the project. Lang described Jackson 85 Business Park as a well-located, modern logistics development. She also pointed out that the project would enhance one of Metro Atlanta’s most active logistics corridors.