A second data center in Cape Town was recently announced by Africa Data Centers, a business of the pan-African technology company Cassava Technologies. The new facility is situated in the north of the city. It is said that will have a 20 MW IT load. The facility is currently under construction. By the middle of 2024, it will be ready for use. The company’s wider plans for African expansion also include the construction of a new facility. In order to provide customers with the world’s best facilities, the company is increasing its investments in the African market. It is also concentrating on Cape Town as the location for deployments. Customers can use this to reserve several sites for redundancy. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Tesh Durvasula, CEO of Africa Data Centers, asserts that the company is constructing a second facility to meet demand in the region and beyond. Cape Town has the second-largest economy in South Africa. It is recognized as the country’s IT and software hub. The market for data centers in the region is growing significantly. The city is a preferred destination for both local and international cloud software and IT service providers. The second facility will provide capacity and redundancy for the region. Tesh said that they developed and run the city’s first hyper-scale colocation data center. The facility is currently home to a number of international providers. It also houses major South African enterprises and the government. Despite the fact that the physical site would be significantly larger, the facility will have a leasable space of 12,000 square meters. A popular tourist destination, Cape Town is the second-largest city in South Africa. Due to its ideal location for data centers and proximity to all the submarine cable landing points, Cape Town is a great decision. Additionally, the new facility is positioned to provide geographic redundancy with Africa Data Centers’ second facility, which is located in the southern part of the city, offering customers the alternative of deploying in two locations.