Lakevista at Purva Windermere, one of the premium lake-side developments in Pallikaranai has been pre-launched by the Leading Bengaluru-based realty firm, Puravankara. Featuring a 55-acre integrated enclave and a wide array of 1,2 and 3-bedroom homes, the development sits on a spectacular 58-acre serene lake. It offers 1000+ home residences ranging from 611 square feet to 1.491 square feet of super built-up area. In an effort to meet human development goals, the project features sustainable design strategies. Additionally, the project is keen on conserving natural resources as well as the environment. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Lakevista at Purva Windermere is located right in the heart of South Chennai, the capital of the state of Tamil Nadu. The city is considered to be one of the best in India, especially for a living. It is surrounded by various natural bodies such as lakes and ponds. As a result, the entire area attracts a wide variety of birds. Read Also: India: Uber luxury boutique residences in Koramangala 3rd block set for launch In addition to the natural aspect, residents of the Lakevista at Purva Windermere will enjoy40+ amenities including a multipurpose hall, a total of 2 clubhouses, alongside an entertainment center. They will also have access to a swimming pool, cycling tracks as well as walking zones, and landscaped parks. Additionally, there will be a children’s play area and community spaces, a luxurious clubhouse accompanied by a gym, a convenience store, a sauna, and a multi-court. While commenting on the project, the CEO of Puravankara said that the project strives to serve as a thoughtfully-curated township. Abhishek Kapoor further describes the project as a quiet neighborhood replete with lakes and parks. Moreover, the CEO noted that the project offers easy mobility as well as good connectivity. Therefore, the project’s location is ideal for families that are looking to stay next to Chennai’s commercial and cultural centers.