A major transformation plan in the city of Stoke-on-Trent has taken a step ahead as a hybrid planning application was submitted. The council-led two-phase Etruscan Square development will produce nearly 300 homes, a hotel, and an arena with a 3,600-capacity. The project is set in the Hanley neighbourhood of the city centre. A separate planning application for a multi-story parking structure and mobility hub with 645 spaces also supports the regeneration plan. The facilities are designed by Potter Church & Holmes Architects and will be located on the site of the former Meigh Street parking lot. The project is being led by consultant Arcadis on behalf of the council. Recently, £20 million has been secured in levelling up funds to assist in funding initial works. A number of tasks will be done if phase one of the Etruscan Square development is approved. These include transformation of previously developed brownfield land into 92 one-bedroom apartments, 44 two-bedroom apartments, three four-bedroom townhouses, and 632 square metres of commercial, business, and service space. The second phase would see construction of 3,600-seat arena, a 138-room hotel and a 200-space underground parking garage. This is as well as a commercial centre with 5,620 sq m of floor space and an additional 153 apartments. Read Also: Edinburgh’s Granton Waterfront Redevelopment Project, UK The Stoke-on-Trent scheme would contribute to the creation of more than 1,000 full-time jobs. This is over the course of the five-year construction period, on completion, and the indirect jobs created. This is according to Marrons’ socio-economics research, which was used in its planning application to Stoke-on-Trent City Council. Thus, it would bring in about £27 million to the local economy. The application was made on behalf of the design, engineering, and management consultancy Arcadis by Marrons.  Sachin Parmar, director of planning at Marrons stated, “Stoke-on-Trent has been ranked as one of the most impoverished cities in the nation.” “The masterplan scheme will bring significant employment benefits to the region. Furthermore, the arena and hotel will promote the vibrancy of the city centre and boost visitor numbers. This will help to support economic growth and making a significant difference in daily life for the local community.