Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari officially inaugurated Damaturu International cargo airport in Yobe State, which which will be named after him. The platform will serve the northeast region of the country. The project which was launched in 2017 was initially budgeted at 25 million USD. But the government later provided an additional 13.9 million USD in funding. Damaturu International cargo airport is part of a larger government investment strategy that aims to double the number of airports in the country from 31 to 62 by 2023. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here He described the International Cargo Airport as a tactical initiative intended to boost the state and country’s economy. Also Read: Nigeria to build its first floating liquefied natural gas facility He said, “We are officially opening the Muhammadu Buhari International Cargo Airport today. The international cargo airport is a vital part of our country’s economy because it connects the Northeast States. This international cargo airport has been built to the highest quality of design and workmanship and if properly used, will last for its intended service life.” The national export program for agricultural and industrial products would be implemented using this infrastructure, according to the president of Nigeria. He claims that the airport will notably facilitate the transportation of sesame. As well as hibiscus and gum arabic from Yobe to other parts of the world. Furthermore, he pledged that the Airport will assist the economic competitiveness, create jobs, and firmly establish a flourishing economic environment. This is in line with his administration’s goal of eradicating poverty among its people. Along with other people, Buhari was accompanied by the President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan. As well as Governor Mai Mala Buni, Governor Zulum, and Mohammed Dingyadi, the Minister of Police Affairs. The Cargo Airport, which is named after the President, is now to be known as Muhammadu Buhari International Cargo Airport, Damaturu.