The construction of Nancy J Industrial Park in Henderson, Nevada, is set to begin following a groundbreaking ceremony that was carried out by LM Construction, a prominent industrial real estate developer in the Las Vegas valley. The facility will be located close to the northeastern corner of Eagle Rock Street and Nancy Jay Street and to the north of East Lake Mead Parkway. Nancy J Industrial Park will have eight independent structures. Dock-loading doors and grade-level doors are present in every building. Additionally, they have rear loading access and a 24′ clear height. Each building can accommodate up to two residents. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Lake Las Vegas, Downtown Henderson, and Lake Mead Recreation Area are all close to this project. Moreover, the facility is a short distance from Luxe Locker, Calico Ridge, the Wells/Blue Bunny ice cream facility, and the Cadence master-planned development. The I-515/US 93/95, 215 Beltway, and I-11, which is the most direct route to Phoenix, AZ, are three important highways that serve the valley and are conveniently accessible from this area. Principals of Avison Young | Las Vegas, have been hired as the listing agents for the project that is available for sale or lease. The design-build general contractor for Nancy J Industrial Park is LM Construction Co. The firm has its headquarters in Las Vegas. L M Construction anticipates that the first two buildings will be finished in January 2024. Larry Monkarsh the Owner of LMCC and partner in Brass Cap Development is also acting as the Owner/Developer of the project – developing under Red Label LV, LLC. “Nancy J is offering a product that Henderson’s industrial sector really needs. These structures are ideal for owner-users, who can save carrying costs by leasing out half the structure. This is just one of the projects Henderson is currently working on. When it comes to vacancy rates, the industrial sector throughout the valley is at record lows. End users and investors will benefit greatly from Nancy J Industrial Park, according to Larry Monkarsh, owner of LM Construction.