One Za’abeel project in Dubai has marked a significant progress milestone with the full completion of cladding works. The project aims to redefine the concept of mixed-use developments within the region. Currently, the development works on the project are now focused on the interior fit-out. Overall, the project aims to be available for visitors and residents, later in 2023. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Read Also: LIV LUX, a G+47 ultra-luxury residential tower project launched in Dubai The leading real estate developer and asset manager, Ithra Dubai, officially confirmed the project’s infrastructural progress. The development is under the full ownership of the Investment Corporation of Dubai. Other stakeholders of the project include Nikken Sekkei as the lead architect, Omnium International as the cost consultant, and WSP Middle East as the multi-disciplinary engineering consultant, just to name a few. Interestingly, the project will feature, a spectacular panoramic sky concourse. The bridge, better known as The Link is set to break the Guinness World record for the “Longest Cantilevered Building”. Furthermore, the sky concourse will be home to various, high-end attractions. Additionally, it will include a 360° observation deck that will provide breathtaking views of the city. The One Za’abeel project will feature a total of 26,000 meters squared of premium grade-A office space. Moreover, it will comprise 264 duplexes as well as simplexes. The interior-fit outs will adhere to Gold LEED certification requirements. Speaking about the project, the Chief Development officer at Ithra Dubai noted that the project aims to positively contribute to Dubai’s landscape. Raad AL Jarrah further said that a lot of thought has been invested into the project, from concept to design down to its implementation. The project strives to offer a fully-integrated, unparalleled luxurious experience through all of its components. These include the business, residential, leisure as well as hospitality components.