The Sunshine Station Masterplan project has officially set out to not only transform, but become the center of Melbourne’s booming west. The Sunshine Station aims to turn into a transport super hub. Furthermore, the Sunshine Station will serve as the link between Melbourne’s Central Business District (CBD) and the Melbourne Airport. Additionally, it will feature transport connections to the Suburban Rail Loop alongside the regional rail network. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here The project is a result of the Department of Transport’s efforts towards investing and changing the land surrounding the Station. Undertaken in August and April of 2022, the project’s Masterplan was informed through and by extensive stakeholder as well as community engagement. Overall, the Masterplan aims to create a sustainable and healthy environment that places focus on enhancing transport. As a result, the project will help develop a wider network of green as well as community spaces. Additionally, it will also help encourage and promote greater business investment. More especially, within Sunshine and Albion leading to the north. Read Also: Design contract awarded for Chatswood Tower project in Australia The Sunshine Station Masterplan project features a total number of 6 components. These include a new bus interchange, the Sunshine Spurline, alongside new station entrances, gardening and trees, brand new open spaces, and people-focused junctions as well as streets. Moreover, the project also features three sub-precincts, namely the Sun Crescent, the Southern Village, and lastly, the Station Place. For the delivery of the first phase, the project has received a commitment of $143 million in funding. Prioritizing safety around the station, the project will construct additional cyclist and pedestrian crossings. Impressively, the Department of Transport is a partner of Greening the West. As result, the project’s Masterplan includes the planting of more trees while taking into consideration the best solutions for each state. Thus, it will also include Water Sensitive Urban Design and Environmentally Sustainable Design Principles.