The reconstruction of the Appiatse community in Prestea Huni Valley, Ghana, is well on course with the first phase set for completion before the end of the year. This came to light when the Minister for Lands and Natural Resources, Hon. Samuel A. Jinapor, MP, visited the site. The minister was in the company of a delegation from the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources. The Appiatse Reconstruction Implementation Committee also accompanied the minister. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Also Read: Nungua traditional council offers 10-acre land for Borteymanm TVET project in Ghana The project began early last year after a truck carrying explosives to a mining site exploded razing down the Appiatse community in January. According to the Project Architect, Mr. Walter Semordzi, the first phase of the project consists of the construction of 124 housing units made up of 2-to-7-bedroom houses. This phase also includes the construction of a school block with sanitary facilities and the construction of roads within the community. So far, Mr. Semordzi said 106 out of the 124 housing units are under construction and are at different stages of completion. In addition, a kindergarten and six-unit classroom block are also under construction, while the Department of Urban Roads has commenced work on the construction of the roads in the community. The Appiatse community reconstruction project architect said the first phase of the project is approximately 30% complete, and it’s on schedule to be completed within time. Speaking after the inspection, the Minister for Lands and Natural Resources expressed satisfaction with the progress of the work so far. He also affirmed the Government’s commitment to complete the first phase of the project, and move the victims who have been provided with temporary accommodation back to the community before the end of the year. Furthermore, Mr. Jinapor said that social amenities required for a decent living, such as electricity and potable water, will be provided. Other proposed facilities include markets and parks.