Two contracts for signalling and electrification work on the first two segments of the Cluj Napoca-Oradea line in Romania have been awarded to Alstom. Asocierea RailWorks consortium signed the contracts with Romanian state rail infrastructure operator CFR SA. The consortium includes Alstom and the Romanian civil works company Arcada. Alstom will provide cutting-edge digital train control, traffic management solutions, and electrification infrastructure. Arcada will be in charge of all the civil work. The contract calls for the modernisation of 66km of the double railway line. The stretch is between Cluj Napoca and Poieni (30 km for Cluj Napoca – Aghireș and 36 km for Aghireș-Poieni). Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Along with civil work, the projects will involve electrification, modernization of the infrastructure and superstructures, signalling, and telecommunication systems. Alstom will also closely monitor the deployment of ERTMS Level 2 and the implementation of the traffic control solution. This is in addition to the digital interlocking and passenger information systems. The company will also work on electrification projects involving power supply and overhead contact lines. Read Also: Contract awarded for MFW Batyk II and III wind farms in Poland Due to modernization, freight trains will be able to travel at 120 km/h and passenger trains at 160 km/h. Alstom will provide two traction power stations and its OCS3 catenary solution for main lines as part of the electrification projects, making use of its internal resources at the Italian manufacturing facility in Lecco. “These new contracts consolidate Alstom’s leading position on the Romanian railway market, for both digital train control and electrification,” said Gabriel Stanciu, managing director of Alstom Romania, Bulgaria, and the Republic of Moldova. More than 200 highly qualified engineers from Alstom are employed in Bucharest, which has recently developed into a strategic hub for the company’s signalling expertise. Consequently, their knowledge is used for both domestic and international projects.