A 252-unit Maddox multifamily community in Phoenix is set for development by Thompson Thrift. According to Thompson Thrift’s managing partner, Josh Purvis the property will be highly sought-after in the market. Especially since there has been an increased demand for multifamily housing throughout Phoenix’s West Valley. But the region hasn’t had a new Class A apartment community delivered in over 10 years. The Maddox multifamily community in Phoenix will be Thompson Thrift’s fifth community in Arizona which will be in close proximity to Buckeye’s core retail corridor. Additionally, future residents will have access to 303 industrial corridors, downtown Phoenix and several major employers. Some of these employers include Luke Air Force Base, Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Amazon Distribution, and Abrazo West Campus. An upcoming Kore Power manufacturing facility will be built near Maddox which will also create 3,000 employment opportunities. Also Read Azola Avery Centre apartment to be developed in Austin Thompson Thrift expects construction on the project to commence this month, with its delivery date set for late 2024. All aspects of the project will be handled by the three business units of the company. The company’s three main units include Thompson Thrift Residential, Thompson Thrift Construction, and Thompson Thrift Commercial. The 252 units at the Maddox will be spread across seven garden-style buildings on a 10.6 acres property. The buildings are three stories high and feature a mix of one, two, and three-bedroom layouts. Several luxury amenities will be available on the property such as gourmet kitchens with elegant quartz countertops, and stainless steel appliances. What’s more Alexa-compatible smart hub features will be integrated into all smart devices which include smart thermostats and smart door locks. The Maddox will also provide shared facilities such as a professionally decorated clubhouse, resort-style swimming pool, and 24-hour fitness center. In addition, the property includes outdoor amenities such as grilling stations and outdoor firepits with seating areas. Residents will have access to a game room, dog park, pet spa with a grooming station, and pickleball court. There will be 80 separate parking lots available.