Midtown East Office Tower in Tampa, an 18-story multi-customer office building spanning over 400,000 square feet is set for development by Bromley Companies and Highwoods Properties. Thus far, several tenants are already lined up to lease the property. Highwoods’ CEO, Ted Klinck said Midtown East would build on the proven success of their previous office development, Midtown West. Klinck mentioned that they also worked with Bromley Companies on Midtown West, which broke ground in Q4 of 2019. He said even in the midst of the COVID pandemic the property still got leased up. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here US$ 61M+ Loan Secured for UNI Tower Project in Miami, Florida Overall, the total investment for the Midtown East Office Tower will amount to about $83 million. The new tower was designed as an anchor building within the 23-acre $1 billion Midtown Tampa development. Construction on the project commences by Q1 2023, with its delivery date set for the first quarter of 2025. Mayor Jane Castor described the Midtown East Office Tower as the crown jewel of the Midtown Tampa development. The major also pointed out that the new tower would continue to attract top-tier talent and companies to Tampa. Therefore, she said the city is looking forward to celebrating the tower’s grand opening in 2025. Once the Midtown East Office Tower project is complete, Bromley and Highwoods will jointly own 134,000 square feet. But the rest of the building will be leased as the future headquarters of Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas. The tower will feature smart energy management systems, a heat-reflective roof, and floor-to-ceiling high-performance glass. Its design also includes fast destination elevators and floor plans adaptable across uses and work formats. Meanwhile, the ground-level floor of the building will be set aside for restaurant and retail uses. The development team working on the Midtown East Office Tower includes the Joy Trammell +Rubio architectural firm as the designer. While Brasfield & Gorrie will serve as the general contractor on the project.