The first residential apartments in the Mooikloof Mega City development in Gauteng are expected to be ready for occupation in 2023, according to the Department of Human Settlements, which says that work on the project is currently ongoing. The president of South Africa, Cyril Ramaphosa, announced the massive smart city project known as Mooikloof Mega City in 2020. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Read also:The PARKS, largest sustainable city in Africa, to be developed in South Africa In 2020, 62 strategic integrated projects (SIPs) were gazetted, with a total project value of more than R84 billion. It is being constructed in phases. The first phase is concentrating on residential buildings with a potential for up to 50,000 sectional title units. The new city will also include offices, shops, and schools that were all built in accordance with green building principles. The first phase of the project is already under way. According to the department, 546 units are scheduled for completion in September 2023. It stated that Mooikloof Mega City will be given a green classification after the construction of the units is complete. It will also be certified for solar and battery storage. The certification will prove that it has been included in the development to alleviate the impacts of load shedding. The mega-city was created through a public-private partnership led by Balwin Properties. Balwin stated during the launch that it planned to construct 16,000 apartments first, with a total estimated cost of R9.6 billion (in 2020 prices). The group referred to the project as one of the biggest sectional title developments in the world. Providing affordable residences and housing to an area with a reputation for very high costs is one of the project’s main goals. The department claimed that although the initial range for apartment prices was R499,000 to R799,000, the entry price has already risen. The Woodlands Boulevard Mall is about six kilometers from the junction of De Ville Bois Mareuil Drive, and Mooikloof Mega City is about eight kilometers from Solomon Mahlangu Drive, which provides access to the N4 and other main arterial roads. Both of these sites are off Garsfontein Drive.