Grupel’s Energy grows and gains prominence in the power generators market in Portugal. For the 6th consecutive time, the company was distinguished with the 2023 Five Stars Award. This recognition is the result of the confidence that the Portuguese consumers place in the brand, since it is through their evaluation that it is awarded. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here After a market analysis made with a total of 2257 consumers, the 2023 Five Stars Award distinguished Grupel once again, as it stood out in criteria such as satisfaction, purchase intention or recommendation, another sign of the relevance of the company in the Portuguese market. This is only possible thanks to the commitment and dedication of the brand’s employees, from design to after-sales, who make it increasingly closer to clients (not only in Portugal, but in over 70 countries) and a reference in the sector. In the “Generator sets” category, the Award evaluated 6 brands that operate in the Portuguese market, considering five different variables:• Satisfaction through experimentation• Quality-Price ratio• Intention to purchase and recommendation• Consumer confidence in the brand• Product innovation In Grupel’s evaluation, the indicator with the highest score was the intention to recommend, followed by the satisfaction through experimentation and the quality-price ratio. The variable “satisfaction through” included 5 characteristics: robustness, reliability, noise level / soundproofing, consumption, and technical assistance and warranty. The robustness of the brand’s generators and its technical assistance service were the features with the best rating among those mentioned, with Grupel scoring above 8 (from 0 to 10) in all of them. Moreover, the evaluation established that 47% of the respondents associate Grupel with “quality” and that 59% of them recognize the brand thanks to its communication on the web. Grupel’s overall rating, taking into account the variables mentioned, was 8.18 (out of 10), 3.8% higher than the brand’s score in the previous edition and 8.4% compared to the first edition of the Award in which it won (2018). Winning the 2023 Five Stars Award, for the 6th consecutive year, consolidates the prominent position that Grupel occupies in the market of manufacturing and commercialization of generator sets and electrical engineering solutions, in Portugal, considering all phases of the brand’s projects, from conception and design to technical assistance and after-sales. About GrupelWith 47 years of history, Grupel is a Portuguese company that produces and sells power generators up to 3500kVA, portable lighting towers, and other engineering solutions, for various applications, such as construction, infrastructures, agriculture, healthcare, power plants, mining, among others. They have the largest production unit of power generators, in Portugal, located in Aveiro – which allows us a great flexibility to produce standard generators and complex and customized special projects. Equipped with components from internationally recognized brands and our own brand, Grupel products are distinguished by their reliability and resistance. The company  has a specialized team that creates solutions tailored to the specific needs of clients around the world, also ensuring quality services at all stages of the life cycle of our products, from design to technical assistance and the supply of spare parts. Grupel is distinguished with the Five Stars Award and the SME Leader status, in Portugal. It is also internationally recognized, being present in over 70 countries and with an export volume of about 90% of its turnover.