Recently, a €20 million financing agreement to fund the expansion of the water supply and sanitation systems in Kericho and Kisii counties, was signed by the Kreditanstalt für Wied eraufbau (KfW), a German development agency, and the Kenyan government. The contract was signed on January 10, 2023, in Nairobi, at the offices of the Kenyan Ministry of Water, Sanitation, and Irrigation. Kericho and Kisii counties, which are located in the western Rift Valley and southwest Kenya, respectively, will use the €20 million (Kshs 2.7 billion) loan from Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW), the German development agency, to carry out the water and sanitation expansion project. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Read also:Lilongwe Water and Sanitation Project in Malawi With an estimated 902,000 residents, Kericho County will see the project’s start. The project’s water component will upgrade the secondary and tertiary water supply systems and increase their capacity. Also, the project will improve water connections to the city and other communities. The government will provide funds for the repair and expansion of Kericho City’s sewage system, as well as sewage connections. This will be done as part of the sanitation component. The project will continue in the same county in Kapkatet and Litein. It is said that the distribution network will be extended to improve the city’s water supply. The repair of Litein’s secondary and tertiary water supply systems will also be funded by KfW. This is according to Kenyan authorities. Construction of a plant to manage the sludge from the city’s wastewater treatment plant is also part of the project’s sanitation component. The whole project in Kericho County would cost 2.2 billion Kenyan shillings, which is same as to about €16.5 million. This is according to the Kenyan Ministry of Water, Sanitation, and Irrigation. The work in Kisii will be finished with the remaining funds from the German development agency. They amount to more than 37 million euros, or roughly 5 billion Kenyan shillings.