The construction of an Integrated Polymers complex in Ras Laffan Industrial City has been announced by Ras Laffan Petrochemicals. The latter is a joint venture between Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC and Qatar Energy where QatarEnergy owns 70% equity, while Chevron Phillips Chemical owns 30%. An agreement was signed to mark the final investment decision for the project. Alongside Mr. Saad sherida al-kaabi the Minister of State for Energy Affairs, the President and CEO of QatarEnergy witnessed the signing ceremony in Doha. Additionally, the President and CEO of Chevron Phillips Chemical, Bruce Chinn were also in attendance. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here The complex will span a total of 435 acres. It will include an ethane cracker, the largest of its kind within the middle east and one of the largest in the world, with a total capacity of 2080 KTA of ethylene. The project site will also include two high-density polyethylene derivative units. The polyethylene units will have a total capacity of 1680 KTA. Read Also: Construction of Port of Mackay’s Wharf Five Deck in Qatar complete Construction, which will make great use of energy-saving, and modern technology, began with early works at the site in June 2022. The engineering, procurement, and construction of the ethane cracker will be executed by a joint venture between Samsung Engineering CO., Ltd. and CTCI Corporation. Tecnimont S.p.A. on the other hand will execute engineering, procurement, and construction for the polyethylene units. The facility is expected to start up in late 2026. Chevron Phillips Chemical, MarTech, will be used by the polyethylene units. Following a loop slurry process, the resulting product will be high-density polyethylene. Thereafter, it will primarily be for export from the state of Qatar. Polyethylene has got a diverse application portfolio. It can be used in the production of durable goods such as pipes for water delivery as well as natural gas. Furthermore, it can be used for recreational products like coolers and kayaks. Alongside keeping medical supplies sterile, it can be used for packaging applications for the preservation as well as protection of food.