In downtown St. Petersburg, Florida, Moxy Hotel by Marriott was recently topped off. According to PTM Partners, a Miami-based developer, the topping-off was completed in less than seven months from the completion date. The hotel is a part of a larger mixed-use development dubbed The Edge Collective. The latter was designed to feature a hotel, a co-working project, and a mixed-use retail component with a food hall. The 163-key Marriot Moxy Hotel is the anchor of the project. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Although the plans to convert the adjacent 30,000 square foot three-story building into a food hall, were previously reconsidered. Construction on the Moxy Hotel project is taking place on a 1.6-acre parcel located at 1234-1246 Central Ave. PTM purchased the site for $13 million in 2019. Presently, the location holds a parking lot and a vacant retail building, which was once a furniture store and showroom. PTM had to rework its initial plans due to the pandemic and eventually partnered with DoveHill Capital on the project. The Moxy Hotel project which was initially expected to be completed in 2022 was delayed by the pandemic. Consequently, the hotel is now due for delivery by the first quarter of 2024. Upon completion, Moxy will feature open gathering spaces in its outdoor garden, and Wurzak Hotel Group will handle the management. Kellogg and Kimsey Inc will serve as the general contractor for the project. According to PTM’s CEO, Michael Tillman, the designs for The Moxy Hotel project were fine-tuned throughout the entire process. Tillman said they tweaked the design to make the hotel into a higher-end product compared to the existing ones. Also Read: Construction begins on Seminole Square Apartments in Florida Therefore, he said Moxy’s design plan now includes Sparrow, a rooftop bar with a retro theme, and a rooftop pool. Additionally, the green spaces will be open to the public for hosting events and they will also feature rotating art installations. Tillman also described the interior design plans of the Moxy Hotel project. He mentioned that the hotel would have a very large lobby with high ceilings and an open floor plan. In addition, a bar will be located at the entryway which will face Central. Tillman pointed out that the bar would help keep the avenue active.