The Kilwa modern fishing port, in the Lindi region, is being constructed by the Tanzanian government for TZS260 billion. Preliminary construction preparations, including a geological investigation of the soil, have started, according to Kilwa district commissioner Zainabu Kawawa. After completion, the Kilwa modern fishing port could have the capacity to produce 60,000 metric tonnes of fish annually. It is expected that part of the fish will be sold to neighboring countries. Read also:Shimoni Fishing Port Project update As part of a plan to take advantage of the country’s blue economy, the Tanzanian government plans to buy fishing boats for the port. In order to attract both local and foreign investors and ultimately boost the contribution of the blue economy to the national economy, it also intends to establish a business-friendly environment with the port. The port is being constructed as part of the Resilient Natural Resource Management for Tourism and Growth (REGROW) project. The project seeks to improve protected area management and boost tourism in the country. Ulega went on to say that the port would allow Kilwa to reclaim its lost glory as a global commercial hub. Modern fishing equipment, such as boats, will be used, as will scientific fishing methods. He also said that it will include deep-sea fishing, processing, and exporting of various fishing products. Tanzania Wildlife Authority (TAWA) has promised to deliver a glass-bottom fiberglass boat for visitors to discover a wide variety of fish species. This is in an effort to contribute to and boost ocean tourism. The government is encouraging people to engage in aquaculture. They are also urged to participate in the recently established cage culture. This would eventually boost revenue from the fisheries industry and its resources. The sector has consistently contributed at least 1.71% of the country’s GDP for a long period. The country exported fish for $4.32 million in 2021, making up 0.067% of all Tanzanian exports. This is according to Trend Economy data. At $1.87 billion, Italy accounted for more than 43% of all exports, while the Netherlands came in second with $1.76 billion, or 40% of all exports. The country’s fishing sector could profit from the new fishing ports, which would boost its contribution to overall exports.