Danube Elitz Apartments in JVC, Dubai, has been launched. During its launch, the developer Danube Properties announced that the property sold out on the same day. The sales agreement’s signing for the project was back in October 2022. Fast forward to the present, Eshraq Investments has declared resounding success from the project’s impressive sales having been snapped up by brokers, investors as well as buyers. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here The $150 million project is due for handover by December 2025. Danube Elitz Apartments in JVC includes a combination of Presidential Suites, Studios as well as 3,2,1 BHK units. Moreover, the project also features penthouses and duplexes all spread across two towers. Also Read: 31-storey Upper House at Jumeirah Lake Towers in Dubai launched The first, known as Tower One includes a total of 36 floors. Meanwhile, the second, known as Tower Two has 39 floors. Both of the twin towers feature retail, commercial and residential spaces. Its building design is considered to be one of a kind as it features an exclusive glass facade. The project is right within Jumeirah Village Circle (JVC), a well-developed community. As a result, residents gain the advantage of easy access to Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed road, and Al Khalil road alongside Sheikh Zayed road. Moreover, Danube Elitz Apartments in JVC boasts 30+ amenities, that are said to be offered by no other developer in the region. These include a party hall, a kids’ daycare with a nanny, an open-air cinema, and a sports training center. Furthermore, the project also offers a doctor on call, a wellness center, a sky bridge, a garden as well as a health club. While commenting on the project’s success, the chairman of Eshraq Investments congratulated Danube Properties. Jassim Alseddiqi then added that Eshraq firmly holds on to its commitment to delivering exceptional value to shareholders. Especially through reputable partnerships that offer support to the efficient execution of the firm’s land monetization program.