Current real estate trends are a combination of positive and negative developments. To begin, property prices are expected to continue rising due to several factors. Apart from the preceding pandemic, the cost of owning a home will likely continue increasing due to the ongoing economic downturn, the emergence of new buyer demographics, and more. If you haven’t been following up, below are a few real estate trends to keep you updated. Advancing technology and the pandemic accelerated digital migration in many sectors, including the real estate industry. Unlike before, finding Tulum homes for sale has never been easier. Digitization has made it possible for most potential homeowners to buy their homes without stepping foot first. Many people searched and paid for their homes even before seeing them physically because of the availability of virtual technology, which facilitated 3D tours and virtual staging. However, home tours aren’t the only home-buying aspect that has gone digital. Applying for and being approved for a mortgage can also be done online. Millennials, who mostly rely on social media, turn to technology in the search for new neighborhoods, easing home search and purchase. An increase in demand for homes created serious shortages, which caused the housing crisis in most regions. Real estate players, including contractors and investors, found an opportunity in the crisis by introducing new ways of building homes faster. Popular alternative building methods that offer a solution for the crisis are modular building and 3D printing. Modular building eliminates the risks and uncertainties of traditional construction. With this option, parts of a house are designed and built in warehouses or factories and then shipped to the actual location for installation. The approach is beneficial in the following ways: On the other hand, 3D printing helps speed up concrete and metal production. It also reduces waste produced, making construction more efficient. Biophilic home designs are an emerging real estate trend, especially for eco-conscious homeowners. This design adopts an environmentally-friendly architectural style into the building. Key features of biophilic home designs include: There’s a significant change in customer preferences, especially in the real estate industry. Most people looking for homes currently focus on efficiency and sustainability. Other trends include migration from cities to suburbs, low mortgage rates, and a decline in the rental property market. 