Plans are underway for the development of a $1 billion residential project in Scottsdale, Arizona dubbed the Optima McDowell Mountain Village. Recently, the developer, Optima, received approval from the city to commence construction on the new residential community. The construction will take place at a 22-acre location on Scottsdale Road and Loop 101 Freeway. Optima purchased the 22 acre property for its Optima McDowell Mountain Village from John Lund at $44.7 million. The property is at an convenient location, which is only a five minutes drive to Scottsdale Quarter and Kierland Commons. Additionally, the nearby Loop 101 Freeway also offers rapid access to all of Scottsdale and other areas beyond. Therefore, the daily commute times will be reduced for future residents planning to visit Scottsdale’s most popular entertainment and dining destinations. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Also Read Azola Avery Centre apartment to be developed in Austin Award winning architects, David C. Hovey and David Hovey Jr. are the designers of the Optima McDowell Mountain Village. The residential community is spread across six condominium and apartment buildings, with a design that accentuates their surroundings. Consequently, the buildings’ featured design consists of several stepped and undulating landscaped facades, which echo the shapes of the McDowell Mountains. Optima McDowell Mountain Village will offer 1,330 residential units as well as 36,000 Square feet of commercial space. The property will include 970 apartments and approximately 420 luxury condominiums. However, four out of the proposed six buildings will be reserved for rental units. While the remaining two buildings will be built as condominiums for sale. The apartment units on the property will include a mix of studio, one, two, and three-bedroom layouts. The sizes of these apartments will range between 775 square feet to 2,025 square feet. The six buildings on the property will feature luxury amenities such as a rooftop deck, with an Olympic-length swimming pool. Other additional facilities offered at Optima McDowell Mountain Village include a sauna, spa, cold plunge, outdoor fireplace, and, lounge sitting. What’s more, residents will also have access to a club with a game room and theater, along with several indoor sports facilities. It features an indoor basketball and pickleball court, a golf simulator, as well as indoor and outdoor kids’ play spaces. Additionally, the development plan involves building 100% underground parking and a new roundabout on Mayo Boulevard to help control traffic.