Plans are in the pipeline for the construction of Africa’s first green tower in Egypt. This came to light following an announcement of a Telecom Egypt and Huawei partnership for the project. The facility will be Africa’s first eco-friendly, integrated solution green tower for mobile networks. It will use a Fiber Reinforced Polymer tower (FRP) with wireless access. The companies referred to the tower as the best steel substitute. According to report, the FRP poles emit 43% less carbon dioxide compared to steel. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here As a result of this agreement, Telecom Egypt will become the first operator to construct this green tower in both Egypt and Africa. This will take the place of the high-emission steel alternative, which emits a significant amount of carbon dioxide. The 18-meter-tall tower has an environmentally friendly camouflage fence around its perimeter. It is supported by a green solar power system and integrated wireless access technologies. It is distinguished by its excellent resistance to a variety of harsh environmental factors, including corrosion caused by contact with chemicals and high temperatures. Also Read: Masdar and partners sign MoU to build 10GW wind project in Egypt This mobile site is distinctive in Egypt, according to Adel Hamed, CEO and Managing Director of Telecom Egypt. He also praised those in charge of the project. For their efforts and their ability to implement the site quickly and effectively while maintaining the highest levels of quality. The expansion of Egypt’s information and communication technology infrastructure has received a lot of attention, according to Jim Liu, CEO of Huawei Egypt. For this reason, they have teamed up with Telecom Egypt, the market leader in Egypt’s telecom sector. Lui noted that Huawei is committed to utilizing all available cutting-edge technologies to conserve energy. And create a sustainable future that emits zero carbon dioxide. According to Liu, the use of passive cooling, which eliminates the need for air conditioning and results in a 47%  reduction in energy consumption compared to sites with interior rooms for devices, is a key component of energy solutions for green outdoor sites. Additionally, he claimed that the process is dependent on the integration of solar energy. The main electrical grid, with a relative reliance on green energy, specifically solar energy. As solar panels will produce about 2 kilowatts, which will result in a 20% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions.