DMA Companies is building Arbor Park, a new senior  apartment project for people of ages 55 and above in Austin. The location of the $17million apartment will be on 4.5 acre property  at McNeil Drive near US 183. Previously, the developer had to demolish a 9,500 square foot commercial building at the proposed site. The 147 unit Arbor Park apartment was designed for older adults, empty nesters and seniors coming from outside the town. According to DMA’s senior project manager, Mark Gilbert, the construction is about 40% complete and already at the building’s second floor. The developer expects the project to be ready for occupancy by late 2023. Want to view building projects in Nairobi only?Click here Also Read The Lock at Flatirons Apartments Breaks Ground in Colorado DMA is building the 147 unit Arbor Park apartment as a four story building, consisting of one and two bedroom units. Additionally, the design plan for the property allows for surface parking and a detached 3000 square foot amenity building. Gilbert also pointed out that the one bedroom units will range between 700 to 900 square feet. While the two bedroom units will range from 1,000 to 1,100 square feet. Out of the 147 units at Arbor Park 9 will be reserved for households earning below 30% of the AMI. Another set of 49 units will be reserved for households earning up to 50% or less of the area’s median income. Additionally, 28 units will also be set aside for households with incomes at or below 80% the median income. The developer has also included two units that will be available for sale at market price. The Arbor Park apartment will feature two elevators to ensure easy commuting for the senior residents. Other shared amenities in the building include a large community area, with a kitchen and the ground floor library. In addition, the building also includes a detached movie theater and the art room facility. The property has a V shaped architectural design plan, which wraps around the heritage trees and offers a unique landscape view.