The Bee Cave City Council is looking forward to building its new Bee Cave public library in Travis county, Texas. Earlier this month, the council  contracted Lake Flato Architects to handle the  library’s design and Hoar Construction to build it. According to the city officials, a new library is necessary in order to keep up with the city’s population growth. City Manager, Clint Garza said the current library was undersized in 2014, based on the results of the Council’s needs assessment. But since then, the  numbers have continuously risen from 5,000 people in 2011 to about 8,500 in 2021. Now the new Bee Cave public library will be made  large enough to handle community events without interrupting its services. The city council expects the design phase to commence in February. While construction on the project is set for delivery by quarter of 2025. Also Read Providence Public Library undergoes major renovation The new  library project will built at 13801 Bee Cave Parkway and sitework  will  commence within the next few months. City Officials have estimated  that the  Bee Cave public library will be a 3 story 24,000 square foot building.  The facility will include new amenities such as offices for administrative purposes, and a separate work station for technical services. Additionally, checkout  and reference desks will be available on two floors of the building. It also offers enough floor and shelving space for over 45,000 books, as well as laptop docking stations Plans for the  Bee Cave public library also include a plethora of  new amenities which will be available on all floors. Each floor on the building will have  family restrooms, publicly accessible meeting rooms and a large public conference room. Visitors will have access to an indoor and outdoor book return area, play areas for family and reading rooms. On top of that, the building features a quiet reading spot, individual study rooms, and usable outdoor spaces for reading. Children will also be entertained by a unique range of games at the facility.