Construction has broken ground on The Regal Mile Studios Campus 1 in Chicago, Illinois. Loop Capital Real Estate Partners has designed the 380,000 square foot, seven-acre enclosed media complex and sound stage building. The development, which was created by Bauer Latoza Studio, will have 95 parking places, 95 square feet of office space, and three film studios. Three areas will make up the triangle site. The first contains the three main studio and office structures and is known as the main studio property. Further, the northwest parking lot and a smaller piece south of the parking lot. It will feature a green room or actor preparation area, are two smaller parcels. Also Read: Construction to begin on 2nd phase of Harper Court in Hyde Park, Chicago The primary site is structured around a central indoor area that serves as an open flex space. It provides access for personnel as well as an inside outdoor yard for staging. Three studio facilities, every 20,000 square feet in size with a 40-foot interior clear height room for filming and set building, are scattered around this central location. Furthermore, the attached office areas are situated away from the studio complexes. The two-story parts, which rise 28 feet, will face the street and obstruct views of the 52-foot taller studio enclosures. Additionally, the office sections have vibrant facades facing the neighbourhood. Construction will start after the approvals are received again in 2021, and it will be finished in time for a fall 2024 occupancy. “Through this $100 million investment, INVEST South/West will increase educational possibilities for young people and provide them the tools they need to thrive and prosper in the film and media industries. The new, cutting-edge media campus will be built in the South Shore area. I’m happy that this project not only elevates local perspectives but also strengthens Chicago’s position in the entertainment sector. In the long run, this development will help our South Side communities and promote our successful post-pandemic recovery, according to Mayor Lightfoot.