An Alternative Investment firm, NexPoint is set to develop its 200 acres TxS District life science development in Plano, Texas. The project will be built at the center of a former 91-acre EDS Campus, which NexPoint purchased in 2018. Since then, the Dallas based developer has purchased the surrounding land at the Legacy property. NexPoint’s President, Frank Zaccanelli said that Plano is the ideal location for the TxS District life science project. Therefore, he said the firm was hoping to partner with the City to transform the property into a thriving life science district. Zaccanelli also pointed out that the new life science project would bring high paying jobs to the region. Also Read Ancora to develop Rhode Island Health Lab project TTxS District will incorporate an additional 109 acres within the legacy neighborhood. Ultimately, the new additions to the property will create over 4 million square feet of lab, office and production space. Construction on the lifescience district will be executed in four phases and phase I will break ground before the year ends. Plans for the initial two phases of the TxS District will involve converting two existing buildings on the main campus. They will offer lab and office spaces spanning 970,000 square feet, and 120,000 square feet of amenity space. In addition, the initial site improvement plans on the property will include a public park and amphitheater. Its design also offers tenants connectivity to the nearby Legacy retail development. NextPoint is currently working with the City on the development plans and TxS District’s impact on the surrounding area. The developer will also collaborate with CRB architectural and engineering services on all four phases of project. Upon completion JLL will handle the leasing arrangements on the property. According to JLL’s Matt Daniels, TTxS District will support life science companies at any point of their development process. Daniels mentioned that the project would serve them at discovery, early-stage development, and commercialization stages of development.