if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');Plans are underway for the development of onshore wind power projects in Poland. The projects will have a combined capacity of 1GW which is equal to the national consumption of more than a million households. They will be developed by UK-based energy investment firm Renewable Power Capital (RPC) in collaboration with Polish renewable energy company Tundra Advisory. There are already potential sites worth more than 500MW that RPC and Tundra have identified. The collaboration is anticipated to have a positive effect on decarbonization and support Poland’s long-term energy resources. Its completion is contingent on the appropriate regulatory bodies’ approval. Tundra is owned by Taiga Mistral. The company has been in the renewable energy industry for more than ten years. As a result, it has worked on some of Poland’s biggest clean energy projects. “We are pleased to enter into a strong strategic partnership with an international and reputable investor such as RPC,” said Tundra and Taiga CEO Jaime Blas. The joint venture will help us realize our goal of becoming Poland’s top wind energy developer. This is by maximizing the strengths of both parties. Read Also: Latvia’s Kurzéme Offshore wind farm to start operating before 2030 RPC’s first agreement in Central and Eastern Europe with Tundra expands its portfolio of wind projects in Finland and Sweden. Additionally, the company is involved in a 1GW battery storage project in the UK and a 3GW pipeline in Spain. “The European energy market is undergoing significant changes. Thus, renewables will play an increasingly important role,” said Mariano Berges, chief commercial and technical officer of RPC. The goal of Renewable Power Capital is to contribute to the solution. We are happy to be collaborating with Tundra’s highly skilled team to help Poland realize its potential as one of Europe’s largest onshore wind markets. RPC is a London-based company that makes investments in the creation, maintenance, and ownership of solar, onshore wind, and battery storage assets over the long term. In June last year, the company agreed to purchase four ready-to-build onshore wind schemes with 528MW of total capacity in Sweden.