The groundbreaking of a market-rate South Tryon apartment in North Carolina took place recently at Charlotte’s South End. The developer, NRP Group, is collaborating with Canyon Partners Real Estate (Canyon) and CIBC Bank USA on the project. Canyon will provide equity investment for the project, while CIBC Bank will cover the construction loan. The South Tryon apartment in North Carolina will be built at 3310 S. Tryon St. The project’s location will be within half a mile of the New Bern light rail station and Interstate 77. Therefore, it will be accessible to metro Charlotte and new offices of several high-profile employers in the City’s South End. Also Read3 Toll-Equity Residential apartment communities coming to Texas South Tryon community is also close to Charlotte’s Center City district, which offers access to retail, dining, and entertainment options. The surrounding local attractions and small businesses will be an easy commute, especially for residents who enjoy walking and biking. Moreover, the Charlotte Douglas International Airport and the Uptown and South Park neighborhoods are only about five miles away. South Tryon will be a five-storey apartment building featuring a mix of one, two, and three-bedroom layouts. However, the one-bedroom layout will provide open den floor plans to accommodate residents who work from home. In addition, the community will also feature modern amenities such as a swimming pool and a standard fitness center. Other shared amenities will include a movie theater, bike room, coworking space, dog park, and outdoor courtyards. South Tryon is NRP Group’s seventh community in the Charlotte area. The developer expects the project to reach completion by 2025. NRP Group’s V.P., Jason Mochizuki said his company was excited to bring South Tryon to South End’s neighborhood. Especially since the area is rapidly becoming one of Charlotte’s premier entertainment and business districts. Mochizuki described Canyon and CIBC, as exceptional, committed, and trusted partners. He said was grateful to have partners who also believe in creating quality housing for a growing number of residents.