The Aurum One Luxury Project in Islamabad, Pakistan has appointed SSH as its lead design consultant. Quite impressively the top international architecture and engineering consultant has been ranked amongst the top 10 Middle Eastern architectural firms by World Architecture Magazine. The Aurum One Luxury Project’s development will be within the Defence Housing Authority (DHA) master plan. The project will include retail, entertainment, and residential developments. Moreover, it strives to offer luxury, real estate facilities in the region. Offering convenience and hassle-free access, the project is near Giga Mall right on G.T Road. Read Also: World Bank approves US $700m for 4.32GW Dasu hydropower project in Pakistana The project’s development is a result of a joint venture between Paragon Developers Pvt. Ltd and DHA. In Pakistan, the project will be SSH’s first signature, residential development. It will feature two towers with a central connection. Furthermore, it will feature a retail mall that features F&B options alongside, high-end shops. Additionally, its main landscape plaza will feature the mall’s entrance. The project is on a 10,037-square-meter plot. The residential units will range from high-end one, two, and three-bedroom units. Additionally, its designated parking is made up of well about 900 spaces. In total, the project area is approximately 146,000 square meters. The project will feature amenities such as high-speed elevators, wellness centers, and fully-fitted kitchens alongside optional home automation. Moreover, the project will also incorporate parking management systems, a community hall, as well as central air conditioning. In addition to the aforementioned, the development will also include an external rooftop pool, a gym, and meeting rooms for residents. Moreover, it will also include a business center. As a whole, the project aims to create a new benchmark for luxury living within the region. Thus, each tower will feature panoramic, curved glass shapes. As a result, residents will experience unique and spectacular skyline views.