A MoU was signed on Wednesday with four companies for the construction of an integrated industrial zone within the port of Kribi. The parties involved are Tangier Mediterranean Special Agency (TMSA), which oversees the Tangier MED port complex in Morocco; Bolloré Africa Logistics of France, which is now owned by the Italian-Swiss company MSC as of December 2022; ICTSI, a Filipino operator present at the port of Kribi’s multipurpose terminal; and CHEC, which built the port and operates its container terminal in a joint venture with Bolloré and the French shipowner CMA CGM. The project, which is estimated to cost $900 million (CFA 550.3 billion), will be set up on 1,500 acres. According to the Port Authority of Kribi (PAK), the project is anticipated to generate 50,000 direct jobs. Also Read: Agreement signed for installation of 100,000 solar streetlights in Cameroon According to PAK, the project consists of the development, operation and maintenance of 1,500 gross hectares of land. With a view to the installation of logistical and industrial activities. The majority of the projects are related to deforestation, earthmoving, constructing VRD (such as telecommunications, water, electricity, public lighting, roads). As well as constructing buildings for commercial usage (high-standing business center, warehouses, etc.). Afterwards, all of this infrastructure will be made accessible to companies on a rental basis. With the added benefit of taking advantage of the provisions of the 2013 law governing economic zones in Cameroon. Recall that these two laws provide substantial tax and customs exemptions to companies, both during the installation and manufacturing phases. Furthermore, the port will become one of the largest platforms in Africa as a result of the integrated industrial zone. Which is projected to bring about a number of advantages. They range from an increase in activity and traffic at the port of Kribi to an increase in foreign direct investment (FDI), an improvement in the competitiveness of Cameroon’s international trade, or even a contribution to the industrialization of the nation following the National Development Strategy 2020–2030.