if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');Burgersfort Private Hospital is being established thanks to a partnership between Riobex Pty Ltd., regional healthcare partners, RH Managers, a private equity firm, and funds from the Development Bank of South Africa. Recently, a sod-cutting ceremony was conducted at the site of the new private hospital. Read also:CASTO Lakewood mixed-use development to be built on former Lakewood Hospital site in Ohio It is said that the hospital will be constructed close to the Thaba Moshate Hotel, Casino, and Convention Resort at the corner of the R37 and R555. The hospital will be named RH Burgersfort Private Hospital. Eddie Maila, the mayor of Fetakgomo Tubatse Local Municipality (FTLM), and councilors were requested to take part. Visitors and stakeholders attended the ceremony. The FTLM council, Cllr. Reneilwe Pholoane, the hospital board members, and the medical practitioners from Steelpoort and Burgersfort also blessed the ceremony. According to RH Managers’ CFO Dion Mhlaba, the hospital’s total development costs will be R140 million. The project will result in 150 permanent employment opportunities in addition to 200 temporary jobs during the construction phase. Most of these will be nurses and healthcare professionals. Depending on the availability of available skills, 65% of the workforce will be local. The hospital is anticipated to open to patients in August 2024 and will include 100 beds as well as three theaters. Soon, there will be secure doctors and specialists that will offer their services. He extended his gratitude to all of their partners, who have dedicated countless hours to making the project a success. He added that they are confident that there won’t be any challenges that prevent the project from progressing successfully. The new hospital will be a cutting-edge facility that seeks to provide the people of Limpopo and Mpumalanga as well as others with better health services, including services for eye care, cancer, TB, HIV, non-communicable ailments, and more.