Tavros Holdings, Canyon Partners, and Charney Cos. have formed a partnership to build a  585 Union Street project in New York. The developers finalized the land acquisition  in October 2019 for the mixed-use project, which includes both retail and residential components. Afterwards, they secured a $107 million senior construction loan from Pacific Western Bank to build the partly affordable  community. The joint venture partners selected Fogarty Finger Architects to design the community which will be located in Brooklyn’s Gowanus neighborhood.  According to the developers,  the 585 Union Street location is only a block away from Union Street subway. Therefore, residents can  easily commute into lower Manhattan in approximately 30 minutes using the subway. Another benefit of the location is its close proximity to several restaurant and retail options. The property is also within walking distance of the Barclays Center, and two Whole Foods locations. Also Read Project for New Mixed-Use Building at 619 Porter St. in Kalamazoo, Michigan, to Receive US$ 1.2M Shot in the Arm Recently, Fogarty Finger released  renderings of 585 Union Street, which revealed  a nine-story  building, with a rippled curtain wall. Based on the design plans, the building’s lower floors will have a light gray stone façade and floor to ceiling windows. But this color pattern changes above the third and seventh floors and finally reveals a darker gray facade. The project will be powered entirely by electricity and equipped with flood-resistant landscaping and plantings. The residential component of the 585 Union Street community will feature 224 rental units and span  158,000 square feet. The property offers residents a mix of studio, one, two and three-bedroom units. However, only some select  units on the fourth and eighth floors will include a private outdoor terrace. The developer has reserved 25% of the available units  for affordable housing. 585 Union Street offers several shared amenities such as a fitness center, rooftop pool, basketball court,  lounge, bike storage and parking. On top of that, the developers are also planning to incorporate a ground floor retail component for the nine-story community. This retail section will have 200 feet of frontage along 3rd Avenue and 230 feet of frontage along Union Street. 