if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');The latest industrial design-build complex from LM Construction, a top developer of industrial space named Cartier in the Las Vegas valley, recently broke ground. Grading on the Castello-Monkarsh Development started on January 31, 2023. Cartier Industrial is located on 4.28 acres. It has one standalone structure with a total floor area of 74,833 square feet. It may be divided into 37,416 square feet. There is a R-24 insulated tilt wall panel system, R-38 roof deck insulation, and 81 parking spaces. Additionally, an ESFR fire suppression system, M-D zoning, rear loading truck access, and the ability to be divided into two occupants are all features of this concrete tilt structure. Also Read: Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices begins work on Las Vegas office This industrial development is in the highly sought-after North Las Vegas submarket and is located on the northwest corner of N. Lamb Boulevard and E. Cartier Avenue in North Las Vegas, Nevada. Deliverable amenities are available in the neighborhood, and the I-15 and 515 freeways are easily accessible. “Cartier is offering a much-needed commodity to North Las Vegas’ industrial area. This project is ideal for an owner-user. This is because the owner can save carrying costs by leasing out half of the structure. Tim Castello, CCIM and partner stated that this is only one of the projects they are working on in the neighbourhood. “The industrial sector valley wide is at historic lows with vacancy rates at less than 1.7%. This project is a rare opportunity as we are offering it for either purchase or lease at an affordable rate. Additionally, Cartier is situated in a desirable neighborhood welcoming to industrial users.” The design-build general contractor for the Cartier Industrial Center is LM Construction Company, LLC, a construction company with its headquarters in Las Vegas. A late fourth quarter 2023 completion date is what LM Construction Co. anticipates for the project. As the Owner/Developer of the project that is being developed under Castello-Monkarsh Development. Furthermore, Larry Monkarsh, Owner of LMCC and Partner in the Castello-Monkarsh Development is also functioning as a Partner.