Officially, the Midland Station Project has unveiled its new designs for the development. Following lodging of the Development Approval (DA) application, the project’s major construction works are said to commence later, in 2023. Its development is jointly funded by the Federal and State Government, with completion due in 2025. The brand-new three-platform station will be between Cale and Helena streets. Furthermore, its construction will be under the expertise of the Midland Junction Alliance. The collaborative team is made up of Georgiou Group, BG&E, McConnell Dowell Constructors (Aust), and Arcadis Australia Pacific. The Midland Station Project strives to be a landmark for Midland. Moreover, its design will feature contemporary themes that reflect the local culture and heritage. The contemporary design will be against the industrial backdrop of the Midland Railway Workshops. Read Also: VIC Metro Tunnel in Australia achieves key milestone The project’s location further brings it closer to the Midland CBD. As a result, it will also improve access to sites such as the Midland Gate Shopping Centre. Additionally, it will also improve access to the Midland Health Campus. The brand-new station will include a 12-stand bus interchange, platforms for servicing the urban and regional networks as well as bike shelters. Furthermore, the station will include a pedestrian overpass accessible to the public 24/7, a kiosk, operations facilities, as well as 1 kilometer of new shared path. The path will also serve as an extension of the existing network. Quite impressively, the project will also include a multi-storey car park, boasting a capacity of more than 800 bays, that’ll replace the existing at-grade car park. While speaking on the project, Rita Saffioti said that the new train station’s designs showcase a visually appealing, accessible, and modern development. Most importantly, the Western Australia Transport Minister added that the project will serve as a vital connection to residential buildings, essential community facilities, and local businesses. 