The expansion and dualization of the 132km Kano-Kazaure-Kongolam dual carriage road in Nigeria has been commissioned. The project was commissioned by the Minister for Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola. During the commissioning, H.E Babatunde Raji Fashola, the Minister of Works and Housing, commended the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration towards infrastructural development. The 116 billion Naira project will be wholly financed and carried out by BUA Group in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing. The Kano-Kazaure-Kongolam dual carriage road in Nigeria will pass through Kano, Jigawa, and Katsina states from Dawanau Roundabout in Kano State to Kongolam in Katsina State. Also Read: Construction of the 54-km Ngalda-Mutai road in Nigeria resumes It will contain three bridges – Ungoggo Roundabout, Kazaure, and Daura and also include pedestrian crossings at eight locations along the project corridor and solar street lights for safe driving during nighttime which will be important to bring developments in the three states. The Minister for Water Resources, Eng Suleiman Adamu, promised that the Government would continue to support all the projects that will help improve the economic status of the people. He also urged BUA Group, the contractor, to ensure the highest quality in the construction process and adhere to responsible ESG practices throughout the project’s lifetime. Upon completion, this road is expected to improve inter-state travel and also encourage trade between the three states it traverses. Moreover, the construction of the Naira Kano-Kongolam highway will open up more economic opportunities for Nigeria and the greater West African region. The project will further open up the country by enabling access to neighboring countries, the Niger Republic, via Katsina State. Furthermore, according to Kabiru Rabiu, the project for expansion and dualization Kano-Kazaure-Kongolam dual carriage road in Nigeria demonstrates BUA Group is committed to infrastructural development within Nigeria. BUA Group executive director Kabiru Rabiu said that the group would remain committed to working with the Government on critical projects and initiatives that will speed up human, social, and infrastructural development across the country.