if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');Construction has begun on Hyde Park Laboratories, a 302,388-square-foot life science facility in Chicago. Trammell Crow Co and Beacon Capital Partners are the key development companies. According to a prepared statement by Beacon President & CEO Fred Seigel, the project represents the start of a new partnership between Beacon and TCC. Additionally, Trinal will work as a diversity and inclusion consultant. The development team also consists of Power Construction and Elkus Manfredi Architects. Furthermore, it consists of Interactive Design Architects and Ujamaa Construction. The project’s sole leasing agents are Dan Lyne and Brandon Green of CBRE. Also Read: Construction breaks ground on The Regal Mile Studios Campus 1 in Chicago, Illinois The project is located at the intersection of East 53rd Street and Lake Park Avenue. Hyde Park Laboratories is the second phase of the 1.1 million square foot Harper Court mixed-use complex. The 12-story office building from Phase I, which houses more than 550 UChicago employees and was purchased by Clal Insurance for $112 million in 2014. It will be replaced by a life science complex. Hyde Park Labs will have nine floors of Class A office, lab, and ground-floor retail space when it is finished. This is in addition to three levels of parking. In addition, the building will provide 40,000 square feet of facilities, such as private patios on each floor, an internal bar and lounge area, bike storage, and a rooftop terrace with grills and fire pits on the fifth story. The building was designed to achieve LEED and WELL certifications. The developers and UChicago also want to sponsor a community engagement program and feature 2,500 square feet of common space. The construction site is only six miles from downtown Chicago and is close to several bus and rail stops as well as Interstate 10. The Hyde Park campus and the Medical Center of the University of Chicago are also nearby. By establishing essential lab infrastructure, the 14-story building is anticipated to improve the South Side of Chicago’s science and technology cluster. The goal is to finish by the end of 2024.