Central Park Tower is making waves in the Big Apple! The construction of the CPT began all the way back in 2014 and today, it’s the world’s tallest residential building reaching a height of 1,550 feet. The development was built by Extell Development Company and designed by architect Adrian Smith of Adrian Smith + Gordon Gill Architecture. But with a design by renowned architect Adrian Smith, this tower is not just tall, it is also incredibly stylish beyond one’s imagination. Central Park Tower is located on West 57th Street, right next to the iconic Central Park, and offers stunning views of the park and the city. The building has a total of 179 luxury residences, ranging from one-bedroom apartments to sprawling four-bedroom penthouses. And, these homes are not your average apartment – they’re decked out with high-end finishes and top-of-the-line appliances. So, what’s the big deal about Central Park Tower? Well, for starters, it’s over 100 stories tall. And, with those views of Central Park, it’s no wonder that people are lining up to buy a piece of this sky-high real estate. According to recent stats, Central Park Tower has already sold over $2 billion worth of homes, making it one of the most successful residential developments in NYC – it’s easy to see why. Not only does it offer residents incredible views and luxurious amenities, but it’s also located in one of the most desirable neighborhoods in the city. The real star of Central Park Tower is the design. Adrian Smith, the building’s architect, had the following to say, “Central Park Tower is a celebration of vertical living, where residents can enjoy the best views in the city while also experiencing the conveniences of city living.” The building’s sleek, modern design and floor-to-ceiling windows make it feel like you’re living in the heavens. Needless to say, the building’s amenities are also top-notch. There’s a high-tech state-of-the-art fitness center, a large pool, a comfortable lounge, and even a private (very spacious) dining room for big or small get-togethers. Plus, residents have access to a 24-hour concierge and doorman, making it easy to get around the city and take care of any needs or requests. And when it comes to maintenance, a professional apartment cleaning service is there to keep the residents’ apartments clean, and maintain the freshness of their luxurious abode. Of course, with all of these amazing features, it’s not surprising that Central Park Tower has attracted some big-name buyers. According to recent reports, several celebrities and high-powered business executives have already snapped up homes in the building. With its incredible height, stunning views, and luxurious amenities, it’s no wonder that people are clamoring to buy a piece of this sky-high real estate. And, with Adrian Smith at the helm, you know that this building is a true work of art.