if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[728,90],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_7',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');The Tanzania Gemological Center (TGC), based in Arusha, will receive Sh19 billion from the government for expansion. Other structures, including an eight storey building on the campus, will be built using the funding. Read also:Construction begins on Palomar College Athletic facilities in California Out of the entire financial support (Sh 19 billion), the first installment of Sh 7 billion will soon be remitted. Doto Biteko, the minister for minerals, stated that the tower will include, among other things, lecture rooms for the increasing number of students. He made this announcement recently at the center’s first graduation ceremony for mineral polishers who had completed extensive training. According to Dr. Biteko, the government is keen to have a sufficient number of experts in cutting edge technologies for mineral processing. Well cut or polished minerals, particularly gemstones, increased their value in both local and international markets. To increase value addition, Tanzania Gemological Center, a vocational training center, provided in house training in gem and rock carving. Arusha Gemstone Carving Center was its initial name from 2003 until 2009, when Tanzania Gemology Center became its official name. The center’s expanded mandate, which currently includes training in lapidary, jewelry training, and gemology, necessitated the changes. Modern laboratories, training workshops, new hostels, and a business center for mineral dealers will all be part of the facility’s massive expansion. According to Dr. Biteko, the government was ready to see the mineral industry embrace current technologies for value addition. He asserts that there are currently three gold processing plants. He also claims that there are 260 units of equipment in the country. In the country, the gemstone sub sector has a total of 417 machines for cutting as well as polishing rocks and gems. Since 2014, 274 students have graduated from short courses at Tanzania Gemological Center. This is according to the center’s coordinator, Daniel Kidesheni. 38 of the 78 students who had enrolled up for training at the facility in 2019 graduated recently and were awarded diplomas. It was revealed that 40 of the 78 students who had enrolled for the training could not complete the course. This is because they were unable to raise the fees needed.