The Kigali Infrastructure Project (KIP), an Rwf 7.3 billion road development project, was launched by the City of Kigali on February 10, 2023, through ConsTruck Limited, a subsidiary of NPD Limited. 31 excavators and 30 trucks that will be used for various infrastructure projects were presented to the Ministry of Infrastructure as part of the unveiling. The heavy machinery also comprises forklifts, 16 motor graders, five-wheel loaders, and five compactors. Read also: Ntungamo municipality road infrastructure project implementation becomes sluggish A total of 57 new roads and a couple of bridges will be built as part of the Kigali Infrastructure Project throughout a 215.6 km area between 2022 and 2026. Since it began conducting operations in Rwanda two years ago, ConsTruck Limited has acquired 126 trucks and 106 heavy-duty trucks. The Kigali Infrastructure Project also includes constructing ring roads around the city of Kigali. This is according to the Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Ernest Nsabimana. By doing this, the traffic caused by vehicles leaving and arriving in the city will be reduced. Dr. Nsabimana stated that the master plan for the construction of the ring roads will soon be completed. Other roads that would be built outside of Kigali’s city borders, including one that spans over 60 kilometers from Base-Kidaho-Butaro and another from Masaka to the new international airport in Bugesera, were also revealed by the minister. During the project’s implementation, he urged construction companies to consider the safety of individuals and their property.  He also asked them to procure the equipment required to construct water bridges. Approximately 560 kilometers of the city’s roads are currently tarred. This is according to Merard Mpabwanamaguru, the vice mayor of the city of Kigali. The vice mayor is in charge of urbanization and infrastructure. The Kigali Infrastructure Project, he said, is the first of its kind to cover a wide area, tarmac many murram roads, build new ones, and widen narrow ones. It is also the first to convert some roads to four lanes. The project will be implemented quickly, according to Yves Nshuti, the managing director of NPD Limited (Cons Truck Limited). This is due to the availability of strong and professional machinery.