if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');The Indiana mixed-use complex Eleven Park is set to break ground this May, according to local developer Keystone Group and the Indy Eleven soccer team. The project is led by a 20,000-seat multipurpose stadium that will host Indy Eleven’s home games. According to The Indianapolis Star, the project will cost $1 billion. Eleven Park would also include a hotel, 600 apartments, 205,000 square feet of office space. Additionally, there would be approximately 200,000 square feet of shops and restaurants, a dog park, water features, and children’s play areas, as well as public parking garages. Also Read: Plans underway for construction of four affordable housing in Indiana and Missouri The project will also include walkways along the White River, a rooftop bar, a concert and entertainment facility with 4,000 seats indoors, and direct access to The Cultural Trail, an eight-mile urban route. Last summer, Keystone and Indy Eleven launched the proposal and selected Populous to build the stadium. The project’s co-developers have chosen AECOM Hunt to serve as the construction manager. The company is also building Little Caesars Arena in Detroit, and SoFi Stadium in Los Angeles. Furthermore, it is constructing Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis, and Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta. By the summer of 2025, Eleven Park’s stadium is expected to be operational. The development’s other uses’ construction schedule was not made public. “Eleven Park will not only alter Indianapolis’ skyline but also provide over 1,000 jobs. It will make a significant economic impact, and improve quality of life. Further, it will bring opportunities and talent to our city and state. As the chairman and founder of Keystone Group, Ersal Ozdemir, explains, “Our goal for Eleven Park is to continue the city’s legacy of using sports as a business driver for Indiana. We aim to raise Indianapolis’ status as a worldwide city and display the world’s most popular sport. Moreover, Indy Eleven is owned by Ozdemir.