The new shopping complex, dubbed BBS Mall (Business Bay Square Mall) in Nairobi, is anticipated to open its doors to the public in weeks to come. It is expected to offer Nairobi dwellers and tourists the best possible shopping experience. The shopping mall which is designed to be among the top shopping destinations in East Africa will be located in Nairobi’s bustling Eastleigh neighborhood. Read also: Balfour Beatty to develop small modular nuclear reactors in the UK BBS Mall is the largest mall in Eastleigh, with a total area of 130 000 square meters. A group of investors who are trading as Ten Commodities and Wholesalers Limited is constructing the new mall. The shopping complex is next to the Pumwani Maternity Hospital. The facility is also bounded by General Waruinge Street to the south. It has a target built-up area of 85% and is built on 6.4 acres. The project will be completed in two phases, the first of which is slated to open in the coming weeks. Later in the year, work on phase two, which will include a hotel and serviced apartment towers, will commence. The BBS mall will have a 7-star hotel, over 3,500 stores, three hospitals, 12 banks, and 32 restaurants, as well as 2,200 parking spaces when it is complete. BBS Mall (Business Bay Square Mall) in Nairobi is designed to be a distinctive one-stop shop for businesses that delivers the best shopping experience. It has retail space on several levels, including a Souk market. The residential section will feature 3-bedroom unfurnished apartments with a floor space of 150–170 sq m. It will also have 2-bedroom furnished apartments with a floor space of 90–100 sq m and 2 en-suite bedrooms. Additionally, the BBS Mall (Business Bay Square Mall) in Nairobi houses a large mosque that can comfortably accommodate more than 1,500 people in any given prayer session. The project’s architects, the famous architectural firm Maestro Limited, are on site, while the structural engineer is Stroutel Africa. The BBS Mall development’s project manager is MaceYMR.