Vectra Bank Corporate Center, a nine-story office skyscraper near Denver’s Belleview Station, has been finished by Confluent Development. More than 200 employees from the Denver metro area work together in the 127,000-square-foot building. They service Vectra Bank customers and support the bank’s future expansion. Floors of office space, parking, and a 4,300-square-foot conference center for training staff members and organizing public events are features of the new building. Additionally, there is one floor of commercial retail space—including a Vectra Bank branch. Eight electric vehicle charging stations, bike storage, and a green area with a sizable patio on the sixth floor are some of the amenities featured. Additionally, there is a café, a massive fireplace, and a lobby on the ninth floor. Together with internal Confluent entitlement specialists, the project team also included Weitz Co., Provident Construction, and Open Studio Architectures. Also Read: Construction of nature-inspired community dubbed Alta Addison in Colorado begins When designing Vectra Bank Corporate Center in Colorado, sustainable practices were a primary priority, and Confluent stayed dedicated to providing the most recent innovations in energy efficiency, sustainability, and green building. The structure functions 16% more efficiently than needed by building rules thanks to energy performance optimization. Vectra Bank Corporate Center in Colorado has hospital-grade air filtration systems, occupancy sensors, and daylighting controls. In addition, there are low-emissivity, high-efficiency windows, and LED lighting. It consumes 40% less water than an office building of comparable size. “The opening of the Vectra Bank Corporate Center in Colorado is a direct response to their requirement to combine a number of office assets that had previously operated independently. They have outgrown their original designs. “Confluent is proud and humbled to play a meaningful role in bringing a once-in-a-lifetime project to fruition.” Confluent was selected in a highly competitive bidding process among various large, national developers.