Premier luxury developer in Dubai, DAMAC Properties, has officially handed over the ZADA Tower Project that is within the Business Bay area. The 26-storey high-end apartment tower project marks yet another significant milestone for DAMAC, especially in Dubai’s bustling city center. In addition to its prime location, the ZADA Tower Project offers a number of amenities. These include a children’s play area, retail outlets, and a swimming pool. Additionally, the project includes a fitness center, as well as stylish interiors. Read Also Main works construction contract for Cavalli Tower in Dubai Marina awarded The project’s main works began towards the end of September 2021. Despite the challenges of covid-19 then, the project pushed through, demonstrating efficiency and commitment to delivery. The project’s development is by DAMAC Properties through its subsidiary, Island Oasis Properties. On the other hand, Kieferle & Partner serve as the architectural consultants. The tower’s substructure comprises four basement levels, dedicated to parking. With the goal to maximize the comfort for residents. the tower’s development has been meticulously planned. Moreover, the apartment units aim to present a new concept of contemporary living. The tower’s fine collection of one-bedroom units ranging from 410 to 1,141 square feet in size. Quite impressively, the announcement for the ZADA Tower Project comes right after the successful handover of two adjacent DAMAC towers. The two towers are known as Vera and Reva. The Vera residence features a 30-storey tower that includes 25 residential floors. Furthermore, the Vera Residency features studio apartments, alongside one and two-story apartments. Meanwhile, the Reva Residency is also a 30-storey building that features an exclusive collection of one and two-bedroom apartments. Reva offers access to the waterway’s covered walkways alongside lush parks. Additionally, retails and dining options in the Burj area as well as the world’s biggest shopping mall are all within walking distance from the Reva residency. As a whole, the residences, including ZADA offer spectacular views of the Dubai Canal as well as the city skyline.