The groundbreaking of Sub-Zero Warehouse in Goodyear Arizona took place recently for an American appliance company named Sub-Zero. ViaWest Group is the developer of the new 599,351-square-foot build-to-suit project. ViaWest has also contracted Willmeng Construction, DLR Group, and Kimley-Horn as building partners to complete the project. The location of the Sub-Zero Warehouse in Goodyear Arizona is at the southwest corner of Camelback Road and Cotton Lane. The project’s site sits on a parcel that spans over 36 acres, along Arizona’s Loop 303 freeway. Upon completion, the new facility will be Sub-Zero’s third facility in the West Valley region of the Phoenix metro. The Wisconsin-based appliance company has two locations at Van Buren St. and Cotton Lane which are also in Goodyear, Ariz. Also Read Lovett Industrial to develop 610 Business District in Houston Goodyear’s Mayor, Joe Pizzillo welcomed the Sub-Zero warehouse project and praised the developers. According to the Mayor, Sub-Zero is one of the region’s first manufacturing companies and is currently its seventh largest employer. Therefore, Murphy was pleased that one of Goodyear’s existing manufacturers continues to choose the region for its new expansion project. Development plans for the Sub-Zero Warehouse in Goodyear Arizona will include amenities such as a 410-foot building depth and 32-foot clear heights. In addition, the facility will also include three drive-ins, as well as 50-foot by 50-foot column spacing. Once the project is fully built out, ViaWest says it will feature more than one million square feet of space. James Murphy, Willmeng’s CEO  said the building of successful build-to-suit projects like the  Sub-Zero warehouse requires a strong team. He pointed out that the role of the developer, architect, and the city’s strong vision helped bring the project to fruition. According to Murphy, his company has participated in several successful projects with ViaWest, DLR Group, and the City of Goodyear. Therefore, he said his company was pleased to work with them again to deliver a great result for Sub-Zero. Besides the Sub-Zero warehouse, ViaWest is working on two other industrial developments along the I-10 corridor as well. Willmeng is also the general contractor of the industrial projects dubbed Converge Logistics Center and Sight Logistics Park. Both projects are for delivery in 2023.