Most electrical issues in homes are caused by defective wiring. Although faulty wiring can cause seemingly minor electrical problems, such as flickering lights, discolouration of switches and outlets and frequent circuit breaker tripping, it can also lead to a home fire. But when should you start searching online for an “electrician near me” for a rewiring project? Aside from the electrical problems mentioned, there are other signs that indicate you have faulty wiring in your home and require immediate rewiring. These include: When you notice these signs, you should start choosing an electrician for this home improvement project immediately. Request multiple quotes from licensed electrical contractors and compare prices to find the one that can give you the most value for their service. Also, consider your shortlisted contractors’ experience, reputation and insurance coverage to ensure you choose the best one to work on your project. Once you have selected your contractor, iron out the details and contract and prepare your home for a rewiring project. Once you are ready for a rewiring project, follow these tips to ensure the smooth undertaking and success of this endeavour: The first and most important step involved in preparing for an electrical rewiring project is to plan for it. Your plan should include scheduling a day or period for the project and getting permits for the project when needed. It is best to schedule the project during a time convenient for you and your family, such as when you are on vacation or when you are at work and your children are at school. If you can’t go on a holiday with your family and the project may run more than a day, stay with a relative or at a hotel so that the workers can move and work freely in your home. If you have pets and young children, arrange for them to stay with friends or relatives whenever the contractors are working in your home to avoid exposing them to dust and debris that will be generated during the process. Once you have ironed out the details with your contractor, the next step is preparing your home for the rewiring project. This includes removing furniture and other items from the areas where the rewiring will take place, covering the floor and remaining furnishings with drop cloths or plastic sheeting and putting tape over electrical outlets and switches. These steps can help protect your furniture and flooring from dust and debris and minimise the risk of electrical shock. Additionally, plan on vacuuming and cleaning your home thoroughly after the rewiring process is complete. So make sure your vacuum cleaner is working properly and stock up on cleaning supplies and tools. A complete rewiring project requires opening some walls in your home so that the contractors can access the electrical wiring. This means removing the wall coverings such as drywall, panelling or wallpaper. If your contractor requests you to remove the wall coverings, do so before the rewiring project starts. This will reduce the amount of damage to the walls and help prevent the coverings from being ruined completely during the rewiring process. If you’re not confident about removing the wall coverings on your own, get help from friends or other contractors with experience doing this to avoid any damage to your home. Additionally, make a plan for putting back your wall coverings after the project as well. If you want to update your wallpaper, do your shopping before the rewiring work starts. Before the rewiring process begins, take the time to label each electrical circuit and device in your home. You can do this by using masking tape and erasable markers. Labelling the circuits and devices can help your contractor know which ones need to be reconnected once the rewiring process is complete. This can also help prevent confusion and mistakes when it’s time for the contractor to reconnect the wires and devices. Your contractor will likely turn off the electrical power in your home during the rewiring process. If you are staying in your home during the project, you need to make arrangements for temporary lighting at night. This entails purchasing battery-operated lamps or installing temporary lighting fixtures. With these fixtures, you can have adequate lighting in your home even when the electrical power is turned off. If you know or suspect there are electrical hazards in your home, talk to your contractors about them. These hazards may include frayed or damaged electrical wires, outdated outlets and other electric issues that could pose a safety risk to your home. If your contractors detect any electrical issues, have them fix those immediately. When you have your contractors address these hazards, you can ensure your home is safe and that the rewiring process is completed efficiently and effectively. During a rewiring project, your contractors may need to change the placement of some electrical outlets. Because of this reason, you would do well to create a plan for the placement of new electrical outlets so that the contractors can place them in your preferred locations. The most strategic areas to have the new outlets installed include near your furniture, lamps and other lighting fixtures. By creating a plan for new outlet placements, you can help ensure that your home is efficiently wired and that you have access to electrical power where you need it. Electrical repair is one of the essential maintenance every home owner has on their list.  When you follow these preparation tips, you can minimise the stress, disruption and damage that may occur during the rewiring project. Additionally, you can help to ensure that the project is completed quickly and efficiently so you can enjoy the benefits of having a properly rewired electrical system in your home. AUTHOR BIO Eloisa Mangilinan is a full-time Content Writer at SEO Sherpa, a multi-awarded search engine optimization company in the UAE. She produces content for different niches for guest post sites, blogs and client websites. She holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Psychology from Saint Louis University.  