if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');Transport Infrastructure Ireland has chosen Atkins, an SNC Lavalin Group member, to provide the detailed design for the MetroLink Project’s Advance Works programme. This integrated public transportation system includes a metro railway with high capacity and frequency. It links the Greater Dublin Area, including Dublin Airport and the city centre. Atkins will develop the detailed design for a programme of activity to precede the main infrastructure works. Thus, it will achieve site readiness to facilitate the mobilisation of MetroLink’s main infrastructure works. This activity programme will include utility diversions and archaeological and heritage works. It will also reduce land access and environmental monitoring. Read Also: Plans Approved for Construction of New Railway Station at Cheadle, UK Martina Finn, Managing Director of Atkins Ireland, stated, “The Metrolink Project will give Dublin a modern, interconnected transportation system that relieves congestion. Thus, it provides commuters with faster, more practical, and cleaner transportation options in and around the city.” “We’re pleased to bring our local teams of experts and our extensive global transportation experience to support Transport Infrastructure Ireland as they advance this exciting project. This appointment expands on our current role as Operations Advisor for Metrolink.” MetroLink is one of the key projects identified in Ireland’s National Development Plan. It will be a first-of-its-kind public transportation system in Ireland. This is because a large portion of the 18.8 km route is underground. The project is expected to carry up to 53 million passengers annually, connecting essential locations in the city centre. As a result, it will join Dublin Airport, Irish Rail, DART, Dublin Bus, and Luas services.