Grand plans to renovate Manchester’s Grade II-listed Great Northern Warehouse and its attached structures with a 1.5m sq ft mixed residential, office, and retail scheme have received the green light. Trilogy Real Estate and Hong Kong-based Peterson, joint developers, came up with the ambitious city center plan. The complex site, which consists of the Great Northern Warehouse, Deansgate Terrace, the “Leisure Box” addition from the 1990s, Deansgate Mews, and Great Northern Square, has been pieced together. The development is designed by SimpsonHaugh. It will transform the old warehouse into a 120,000-square-foot office space. Furthermore, nearly 750 apartments will be delivered over three tower blocks that are 34, 27, and 16 stories high. The apartments will be located where the Leisure Box is now. Read Also: Plans set for Boddingtons Brewery site transformation project, Manchester The approval opens the door for work to begin on the project for the renovation of the Great Northern Warehouse site in 2024. Consequently, the five-year construction program will be completed in two major phases. The warehouse and new apartment buildings will receive the majority of attention in each phase. There will be a one-year pre-construction period before the main construction work starts. Thus, it will allow for the delivery of several important utility diversion and reinforcement works. This also includes the provision of a temporary HV substation. The historic warehouse building in the center of the city will now be used for the first time as premium office space thanks to the planning approval. At the same time, Deansgate Terrace will be repaired and revitalized to provide 30,000 sq ft of a flexible commercial area within the upper levels. Between the Warehouse and Deansgate Terrace, a new pedestrian street with the name Dean Street will be built. The Leisure Box will be destroyed to make way for three residential structures. These will include a mix of homes with one, two, and three bedrooms. The Leisure Box’s foundations and basement floor structures will be kept, reducing the carbon footprint of construction. Great Northern Square in front of the Warehouse will also receive a makeover to improve accessibility and make it more hospitable.