if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');The groundbreaking of a new mixed use community dubbed Soleste Pompano Beach took place recently in Broward County, South Florida. The project’s developer, The Estate Companies (EIG) is building its latest luxury multifamily development, consisting of apartments and commercial space. The project’s location will be at 208 N. Federal Highway. EIG received approval from the city last June to move forward with the Soleste Pompano Beach development. Afterwards, the developer’s affiliate secured a $52.5 million construction loan from a group of lenders. Synovus Bank acted as the administrative agent for the lenders. Also Read Plans for Construction of Burgaw Hawthorne Residential Apartment Complex in North Carolina Moves Ahead According to the developer, Soleste Pompano Beach is at a choice location, offering future residents access to the nearby beach. In addition, the property is in close proximity to one of South Florida’s busiest corridors, just north of East Atlantic Boulevard. Therefore, residents will also enjoy boundless entertainment and dining options at an affordable price. Upon completion, Soleste Pompano Beach will be an eight-story community featuring 253 luxury apartments and a 4,000-square-foot commercial component. The property also offers a mix of studios, one and two bedroom units, along with live-work units. Additionally, a combination of residential and business spaces will be available, ranging from 450 to 1,050 square feet. Residents will have access to a parking garage with 367 spaces, along with 11 more parallel ground floor parking spaces. Soleste Pompano Beach was designed like other projects within the Soleste Living portfolio to provide health and wellness amenities. Therefore, it offers facilities such as a resort style pool and an amenity deck with a gym on the sixth floor. What’s more, residents also have access to an open public space with a picnic area. Besides Soleste Pompano Beach, EIS has several other projects which are also currently under construction or were recently completed. The developer has luxury projects at various stages of development located in Spring Gardens, Dania Beach, and Riviera Beach. In addition, EIS also has another project in West Palm Beach, two in North Miami Beach, and three in Hollywood. Recently, the developer completed Alture Westland, a hotel conversion project in Hialeah and Soleste Grand Central, ground-up development in Miami.