Nordic energy company Gasum has started constructing a new biogas plant project in Götene, Sweden. This is followed after the receipt of final construction permits. Beginning in early 2025, the facility is anticipated to produce 120 GWh of liquefied biogas (LBG) annually. Biogas is a fuel made from various kinds of organic waste that is entirely renewable and sustainable. Additionally, the plant will process about 400,000t of feedstock each year. As feedstock, it will primarily use manure from the regional agricultural industry. Manure is a feedstock that can transform biogas from a low-carbon to a carbon-negative fuel. When used in automobiles, it lowers greenhouse gas emissions. The facility will also produce 350,000t of environmentally friendly fertilisers and energy. The fertiliser will be returned to the farmers who supply the feedstock. Recycled fertilisers, as opposed to fossil fertilisers, contain organic matter, which is essential for maintaining farmlands’ weather resistance and growing conditions. Read Also: Energy developers sign Sweden’s largest power purchase agreement. Gasum will invest around €54 million in the Götene facility. €15 million will come from a grant from the Klimatklivet investment programme of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. It is the first of five sizable biogas plants that the company intends to construct in Sweden over the next few years. The company also intends to build biogas plants at Kalmar, Borlänge, Hörby, and Sjöbo. Additionally, the company plans to construct a biogas facility in Norway, not far from Trondheim. Erik Woode, head of project development & execution at Gasum, stated: “We are delighted to be moving forward with this project in Götene. This is because, in the last couple of years, we have seen interest in biogas intensify in Nordic countries and across Europe. Gasum has an ambitious plan to increase renewable energy availability to its customers. This is whether they are in the traffic, industry, or maritime segment. This plan will begin with the Götene biogas plant.