Plans are underway for the construction of a luxury student high-rise complex, named The Standard at Dinkytown. Developed by Landmark Properties the facility will be located at 514 14th S Avenue in the center of the University of Minnesota’s Greek Row. This location makes it accessible by foot from the university. The development will have 30 affordable housing units with a variety of floor layouts. These will range from studios to five-bedroom apartments. Potential tenants will choose The Standard over other comparable properties. This is because of its unrivaled position in Minneapolis’ main hub. All of the apartments’ interior spaces will include gourmet kitchens with stainless-steel equipment, quartz countertops, and plenty of storage space. Large closets, private bathrooms, in-unit washers, and cable are all standard in every apartment. They are also fully equipped with high-speed internet and television. Also Read: Financing received for Soul mixed-use development in Saint Paul, Minnesota Residents at The Standard at Dinkytown will have access to upscale amenities. These include Cable, internet, and trash pickup, furniture, and a rooftop hot tub with views of Minneapolis and the Mississippi River. Furthermore, a resort-style outdoor pool area with a jumbotron, sun deck, cabanas, and outdoor grilling stations.  A modern exercise center, clubhouse with a computer lab, gaming area, and study lounge with café. Additionally, Amazon package lockers will also be available to residents. Students with access to a car can purchase a spot in the covered garage at The Standard. It will also feature designated places for scooters and bicycles. With more than 50,000 students enrolled each fall, the University of Minnesota has the ninth-largest single-campus enrollment of any university in the country. With an engineering school, medical school, law school, veterinary medicine school, and agriculture school all located on one campus, the institution is one of only five in the country. Its pharmacy school is also ranked third in the country among public universities. Construction on The Standard at Dinkytown is anticipated to start this year, with plans to open its doors to students in the autumn of 2025.