Plans are in the pipeline for the construction of the San Paseo apartment complex in Houston. The complex will be developed by Sueba USA as part of its plans to expand its portfolio in West Houston’ The development will be located off the Grand Parkway and less than one mile north of Interstate 10. According to the developer, San Paseo’s location is just a short drive from Katy Mills Mall, Memorial City Mall, and CityCentre. Additionally, residents at the property would have access to nearby west Houston employment centers, hike-and-bike trails, and other outdoor experiences. San Paseo apartment complex in Houston will feature a 272-unit four-storey midrise apartment building and 20 two-story townhomes, with attached garages. Residents will have the option of choosing between studio, one, two, and three-bedroom plans. In addition, some select plans will be available that offer standard nine-foot ceilings with 12-foot ceilings. The apartment homes will have sizes ranging from 496 to 2,088 square feet. The apartments will be furnished with amenities like granite countertops, luxurious bathrooms with custom-framed mirrors, and walk-in showers. The apartments will be built with wood-style flooring and also incorporate 42” kitchen cabinetry with brushed nickel accents. Additionally, the apartment units will provide full-size washers and dryers, as well as patios or balconies in select homes. Also Read 3 Toll-Equity Residential apartment communities coming to Texas San Paseo’s residents will have access to several shared luxury facilities such as Sueba’s signature resort-style pool and leisure spa. What’s more, the community also provides outdoor cabanas and grilling areas, a 24-hour athletic center, Net Café, and a coffee bar. Additionally, all entry gates at the property will have complimentary covered parking and app-enabled access services. The townhomes on the San Paseo apartment complex in Houston will offer three bedrooms, with 2.5 or 3.5 baths, and an island kitchen. On top of that the townhomes will also include a spacious flex room along with a private, two-car garage. The sizes of homes will range between 2,387 to 2,577 square feet. Sueba USA’s affiliate, Southhampton Management, will manage both the San Paseo apartment community and the adjacent townhomes. The developer expects pre-leasing to commence by March 2024.