if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');A multitude of software solutions are integral to the construction industry today, and enterprise resource planning (ERP) platforms definitely sit among the most valuable assets in this regard. For those who haven’t taken advantage of ERP systems to date in their own operations, and who might be wondering whether it’s worth it if they’re already using a CRM, it’s worth sticking around as we explain the benefits and the distinctions you need to know about. An ERP system is a powerful software tool that helps construction professionals manage their business operations. It provides integrated capabilities and solutions for managing core functions such as finance, procurement, production, sales, inventory control and so forth. An ERP system enables companies to streamline processes across departments in order to improve efficiency and productivity. With an ERP system in place it’s easier to track project timelines and resources more accurately from start-to-finish. Moreover, the data collected can be used for analytics which allows you to gain insights into trends within your organization or sector. In short, an ERP System provides construction industry professionals with the ability to efficiently run their businesses with greater accuracy than ever before. A cutting-edge ERP software platform like OpusFlow is not limited to just the core business functions; it also offers customer relationship management (CRM) capabilities. This allows for better coordination between sales, marketing, customer service and other departments when it comes to managing client relationships. An ERP System provides powerful features such as automated lead tracking, contact management tools and analytics that can give you a deep insight into your clients’ needs – allowing you to provide more personalized services in order to build strong relationships with them over time. With an integrated CRM module within an ERP system, companies are able to handle their clients better while increasing efficiency. This is clearly a selling point in a construction context, where strong bonds with clients can make or break businesses. ERP systems provide construction industry professionals with a way to manage their projects, resources and operations more effectively, as mentioned. In particular it lets businesses track progress quickly, while reducing manual paperwork and labor costs through automation. ERP Systems also allow users to access real-time data from any device – allowing them to make smarter decisions in order to optimize processes within the organization. So if you’re tired of budgets spiraling out of control or deadlines whizzing by without being hit, this type of software can bring things back on track. The most conspicuous divide between CRMs and ERP tools is that the former tends to be far more focused on wrangling customer relationships, while the latter is more all-encompassing in its scope. We talked earlier about how an ERP system can offer CRM-equivalent functionality, and this is key. Through integrations, or through native feature sets, a good ERP can let you encompass the capabilities of several separate software services within a single package. This is better not only in terms of usability, but also when it comes to cost, which matters most in many projects, so it definitely makes sense to adopt if you haven’t already. There’s a place for CRM software and ERP systems, but for larger construction industry companies, the latter is arguably the wiser choice in the long term. If you feel that your operations could benefit from significant streamlining, don’t hesitate to embrace the latest ERP tech.