if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');Burkina Faso has joined the AMP as it looks to increase access to electricity by providing solar power for rural regions in the country. According to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the project is expected to significantly contribute to accelerating the nation’s rural electrification efforts. The project will be active in seven municipalities across Cascades, the Boucle du Mouhoun, and the centre. As well as the Center-East, the North and the Central Plateau. Burkina Faso’s rural electrification rate has increased from 3.2% in 2016 to nearly 10% in 2019, by national grid extension. Nonetheless, expanding the grid is expensive, and the overall rate of rural electrification has remained low. The UNDP said that solar-battery minigrids can now be a competitive option to provide electricity to off-grid area in Burkina Faso, due to falling hardware cost, the rise of digital technologies and adoption of a private sector business model. Also Read: WASCAL’s Climate Competence Centre construction in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, begins At a cost of 1,086,476,580 CFA francs, the project will be funded by the Global Environment Facility (GEF). As well as the Burkina Faso Government and the Nation’s Ministry of Energy, Mines and Quarries (MEMC). The Burkina Faso National AMP project intends to expand access to clean energy by enhancing the commercial viability of large-scale solar power for rural regions of the country and encouraging such investments. Also, the project is intended to aid government COVID-19 recovery efforts. The Africa mini grids programme (AMP) is a technical assistance initiative for solar minigrids. That will be undertaken by UNDP in collaboration with RMI and the African Development Bank in 21 African countries. And at the regional level. It was established in 2022 and is expected to last through 2027.