The 1.2GW Fernando Pessoa solar project in Portugal has received environmental approvals from Spanish electric utility Iberdrola. The Fernando Pessoa project is situated in Santiago do Cacém close to Sines. It is touted as being the fifth-largest solar photovoltaic plant in the world and the largest in Europe. The project is set to go online in 2025 and will have Prosolia Energy as a partner. “This solar farm sets a new benchmark in combining Europe’s clean energy ambitions with the delivery of tangible environmental and social benefits,” Iberdrola Executive Chairman Ignacio Galán said. “As we did with the Tâmega Giga battery, we are proud to continue and strengthen our commitment to Portugal. This is by building new, environmentally friendly infrastructure throughout the nation. The cooperation of the Portuguese government has also been crucial in advancing this project so quickly. Read Also: Contractor appointed for the construction of Spotify Camp Nou stadium in Barcelona The Fernando Pessoa project will bring in up to 2,500 jobs during the construction phase. When fully operational, it will be able to produce enough clean energy to supply 430,000 households’ annual energy needs. According to Iberdrola, the grid connection has been contracted with the Portuguese operator Ren. Alejandra Reyna, country manager for Iberdrola Renovables Portugal, stated: “Fernando Pessoa will be a ground-breaking solar farm. It will be on a scale never before seen in Europe. Only a few years ago, a project of this scope and ambition was unthinkable. However, Iberdrola has the technical know-how and financial resources to make it a reality. We anticipate continuing to play a crucial part in Portugal’s aspirational clean energy future. Iberdrola reportedly wanted to sell some of its Spanish gas, solar, and wind assets a few days ago. According to three sources, the company could raise more than $700 million from the sale of the 2.4GW portfolio. It is believed that Iberdrola and Deutsche Bank collaborated on the sale of renewable assets.