if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');The construction of a 215-unit Stillwater BRT (build-to-rent) community in Frisco, Texas, has commenced. The developer, Stillwater Capital, collaborated with Robert Elliott Custom Homes to build the project within The Link, a 240-acre mixed-use development. Therefore, its location is adjacent to the new national HQ building for the PGA of America and Omni PGA Frisco Resort. The Stillwater BTR Community is part of the master-planned The Link which already has ongoing finishings on other projects. Thus far, the $500 million Omni PGA Frisco Resort is only mere months away from opening. Presently, the developers of the master-planned community are putting the finishing touches on the 660-acre campus in northwest Frisco. Also Read Mixed-use development underway in Virgil Village, Los Angeles Stillwater’s Director Clay Roby said the  Stillwater BRT project would deliver a high-quality and innovative product to the region. Roby also pointed out that the project’s location is within an already vibrant and rapidly growing neighborhood. Therefore, he said his company was excited to utilize its design-oriented approach to bring another high-quality project to Frisco. Based on the developer’s design plan,  the Stillwater BRT community will include state-of-the-art amenities reflecting the lifestyle of the PGA. Residents will have access to a standard fitness center, and resort-style pool, including a lounge with a  golf simulator. The property will have to put green areas, a courtyard with fire pits, and oversized private yards. What’s more, it also offers views of the PGA Championship golf course. The designs for the Stillwater BRT community will include a pet-friendly outdoor environment and a neighborhood park on the property. Additionally, the project’s design will also allow future residents to connect to the expansive Frisco hike and bike trail network. It seamlessly integrates office,  residential, and retail components as well as boutique hospitality, expansive parks, and sporting entertainment venues. The new development is Stillwater’s third BTR project and the developer expects the groundbreaking to commence around Spring. Besides the Stillwater BRT community, the developer’s other projects are  Storybook Ranch in McKinney and  Brentwood at The Reserve in Mansfield.