The Mukaab Project in Saudi Arabia officially made an announcement for its development plans. Quite impressively, it will include a technology and design university, as well as a museum. Additionally, the project will include a multipurpose theatre. Through a promotional video, Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund revealed its plans for the project that will be right in the capital, Riyadh. The gigantic building strives to transform the downtown region. Moreover, it will become the centerpiece of the new downtown core. In fact, it is reported to contain over 20 times the volume of the Empire State Building in New York. The project aims for completion by 2030. Read Also: Agreement signed for Corp Yanbu Hotel and Residence in Saudi Arabia The project will feature well over 80 entertainment as well as cultural venues. Furthermore, it will span a total area of 25 million square kilometers of floor area. The building will comprise 9,000 hotel rooms, and 1.4 million square meters of office space, alongside 104,000 residential units. Moreover, it will also include 980,000 square meters of retail space and, 620,000 square meters of leisure assets. Not forgetting the community facilities that will span an area of 1.8 million square meters. Its structural shape will be in the form of a hollow cube standing 400 meters tall and 400 meters wide. As a whole, it draws inspiration from Najdi architectural style with the fusion of a futuristic twist. The Mukaab Project will have its own transport system. Moreover, its 20-minute drive from the airport offers convenient, and hassle-free access. Interestingly, the project is also part of a much bigger development that is known as the Murabba project. Similar to the Mukaab, the development scheme strives to transform a 19 square-kilometer area to the northwest of Riyadh into a vibrant, mix-district. Back in February 2021, Mohammad bin Salman bin Abdulaziz announced the project. Additionally, the crown prince revealed that it will be overseen by the New Murabba Development Company.