if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');A 200MW Baynouna Solar Park in Jordan has been inaugurated by Baynouna Solar Energy Company (BSCE). In a year the park can produce well over 560 GWh of energy. Quite impressively, its capacity would be enough to power about 160,000 homes. Furthermore, the development also displaces 360,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide in a year, which is equivalent to taking well about 80,000 cars off the road. Additionally, the 200-megawatt (MW) project is the largest clean energy development project in Jordan. It is a result of a joint venture between Masdar, UAE’s world-leading renewable energy company, and Taaleri, a Finnish Investment and asset management group. Back in November 2022, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed with the Jordanian Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources. The MoU set out to explore the development of an additional 2GW of renewable energy projects within Jordan. Read Also Aqaba Cruise Terminal in Jordan, Middle East, inaugurated The project’s inauguration was held in the presence of Excellency Bisher al-khasaneh and the Prime Minister of Jordan. In attendance were Sultan Ahmed al jaber, COP28, President-Designate, and the UAE Minister of Industry and Advanced Technology. Alongside top officials, the Chairman of Masdar as well as the Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources were also present. With a total construction cost of $260 million, the project began in 2018. While commenting on the project, the UAE Minister of Industry and Advanced Technology said that the project is in partnership with the Jordanian Government. Therefore, it strives to contribute towards Jordan’s climate targets as well as provide access to clean energy. Moreover, the project aims to ensure economic growth as well as create jobs. Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber also added that the partnership would further contribute to the delivery of the Paris Agreement, as well as ensure that it is emissions that are been held back, not progress. By the end of the decade. the country is actively working towards a 50% renewables goal.