AP Renewables and PowerGen have signed a Memorandum of Understanding to develop a Power-as-a-Service solution that is designed to transition retail outlets from conventional diesel generators to distributed renewable energy systems. About 10 MW of renewable energy will be provided by this solution. However, the project will start with Ardova retail stations in Nigeria. Which will now serve as energy hubs, supplying electricity to nearby small businesses, homes, and communities. APR, a subsidiary of Ardova PLC, has the responsibility of advancing the company’s diversification into the renewable energy business area. Through a number of streams, including the Power-as-a-Service stream. PowerGen is a leading renewable utility operating across Africa. Furthermore, PowerGen develops and operates the next generation of power infrastructure to deliver clean and affordable electricity to its customers. Also Read: Funding secured for Husk Power solar mini-grid projects in Nigeria Olumide Adeosun, CEO of Ardova Plc said, “Ardova is pleased to collaborate with PowerGen to increase the production of alternative energy. Additionally, this alliance confirms our commitment to the clean energy revolution. This desire is consistent with PowerGen’s objective to promote sustainability and effectiveness through the use of renewable energy.” “Accelerating the switch to renewable energy will have a positive economic growth impact, which is our strategic objective. This is reflected in our operational structure from a traditional downstream company to a leading integrated energy organization poised for renewable energy solutions. With the Power-as-a-Service Solution, we will be able to address the energy shortage and advance economic, social, and governmental (ESG) goals,” he continued. Aaron Cheng, CEO, PowerGen said, “We are thrilled to collaborate with Ardova on this ground-breaking project. This project will offer nearby small companies stable power, energy cost savings, and a decrease in CO2 emissions. In the rapidly changing energy market, Ardova is paving the way by exemplifying how business leaders can commit to renewable energy solutions that advance economic, social, and governance (ESG) goals.” Additionally, the Power-as-a-Service solution can have various benefits in Africa, and Nigeria in particular. Including lower upfront costs because it spares consumers from having to pay for their own energy equipment up front.