if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');Construction is now underway on The Residences at Park 39, the largest and newest mixed-use building in Midtown Kansas City, Missouri. The former Westport Middle and High School campuses at 39th and McGee are the sites of this new construction. The 138-unit apartment complex housed inside the four story old Westport High School will be the crown jewel of the $250 million development. The historic 1908 building has original hardwood flooring and ceramic tiling, and other aesthetic features. These will be conserved and restored. In order to frame great views of the area, new wide windows and updated skylights have been installed on the building’s exterior. Also Read: Plans underway for construction of four affordable housing in Indiana and Missouri The Residences will provide flexible workspaces, a mailroom, a fitness facility, and an auditorium that can be divided into modules. Additionally, conference rooms, a library, and facilities for both big and small gatherings. Further, there will be access to the nearby parks, trails, and more than 80 acres of green space. Residents will also enjoy various indoor and outdoor meeting areas. Open floor plans with very high ceilings, breathtaking views, and finish-outs that feature contemporary styles for kitchens, bathrooms, and living spaces will all be features of individual homes. Each unit will have its own washing and dryer. They will range in size from 400 to 1,600 square feet. The rent will be between $950 and $2,000 per month. Andrew Brain, CEO of Brain Group, which along with E.F. Chip Walsh of Mercier Street is co-managing the Park 39 development and the construction project at The Residences said, “We’re very excited about this new project because we are revitalizing historic buildings that were vacant and we’re bringing them back to life. Furthermore, we will create a more sustainable neighbourhood that people and businesses can enjoy.” The Residences, Midtown’s newest living area, will be finished in the fall of 2023.