Tumakuru Industrial Area, the very first Industrial Corridor in South India, is set for construction in Karnataka. The development, which covers a total area of 1,736 acres, is being developed as part of the Chennai Bengaluru Industrial Corridor (CBIC). In addition to Tumakuru Industrial Area, the CBIC includes the development of the 2,500 acres Krishnapatnam Industrial Area in Andhra Pradesh and the 4,000 acres Ponneri Industrial Area in Tamil Nadu. These areas are set to be self-sustained nodes with world-class infrastructure, road, and rail connectivity for freight movement to and from ports and logistics hubs in the country. In addition, the areas will be served by reliable power and quality social infrastructure. Consequently, they are expected to provide a globally competitive environment conducive to setting up businesses. Of the three areas developed under the CBIC, the Tumakuru Industrial Area has been given the first priority. This area was approved by the government of India on 30 December 2020. Its implementation is expected to be carried out in three phases. It will be spearheaded by the National Industrial Corridor Development and Implementation Trust (NICDIT).  The latter will work closely alongside Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB). Upon completion, the Tumakuru Industrial Area will be a mixed-use development. It will therefore feature a combination of industrial, institutional, residential, commercial, and green spaces. These will make it a self-sustainable and resilient smart industrial city. In addition, the area will boast world-class infrastructure. Moreover, it will have easy access to important transportation hubs. These include the Mumbai-Chennai NH-48, Bengaluru International Airport, Tumakuru Railway Station, and Mangaluru Port. Reportedly, the multi-modal connectivity will ensure seamless movement of raw materials and finished goods in and out of the Tumakuru Industrial Area. During the launch of the project, the Prime Minister of India Shri Narendra Modi highlighted its importance in promoting Atmanirbhar Bharat and advancing the principles of PM-GatiShakti.