The 40.4-kilometer Mtwapa—Kwa Kadzengo—Kilifi Road, which President William Ruto launched on November 19, 2022, is steadily starting to take shape. The contractor has already completed constructing a seven-kilometer radius around the Vipingo location. The statement was made recently by the Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA). Read also:Construction of Kisumu-Kakamega road Mamboleo flyover to be completed in July It is said that the actual construction of the road is currently at 10%. This is according to KeNHA Engineer Ezekiel Fukwo. He is the Director of Highways, Designs, Safety, and Environment. According to Fukwo, there are currently seven kilometres in use. The contractors have indeed mobilized and are performing excellently. Additionally, they anticipate that more work will be seen as time goes by, and they hope the project will be completed quickly. The Mtwapa-Kwa-Kadzengo-Kilifi road is part of a 454-kilometer transnational road. The road connects Bagamoyo in neighboring Tanzania with Malindi town in Kenya. The African Development Bank (AfDB), the EU-African Infrastructure Trust Fund Grant, and the Kenyan government are working together to fund the Malindi-Lunga Lunga/Horohoro-Tanga-Bagamoyo East African Coastal Road Corridor. The road will cost approximately Sh7.5 billion to construct. President William Ruto stated in November last year that Kenya’s infrastructure developments were crucial. According to him, it will strengthen the economies as well as trade between the two countries. 7.4 kilometres of the Mtwapa-Kwa Kadzengo-Kilifi Road will be dual, and the other 33 kilometres will be single lanes that have been expanded. It is said that the project is expected to be concluded in December 2024. The road’s design calls for the clearing of at least 5,000 trees to make room for its construction. KeNHA recently began replacing trees along the seven-kilometer section of the road that has already been completed. To plant the trees along the road, KeNHA has also collaborated with various stakeholders, including Mombasa Cement, Rea Vipingo, Superior Homes, Kenya Forest Services, the National Environment Management Authority (Nema), and the Kilifi County Government. According to Fukwo, KeNHA plans to plant 20,000 trees along the Mtwapa-Kwa Kadzengo–Kilifi Road. According to Fukwo, KeNHA is devoted to environmental stewardship and is following President Ruto’s directive for the country to plant 15 billion trees over the course of the next ten years.