Newmont Africa Ahafo Mine is collaborating with the community to upgrade the Asutifi processing service centre for the processing of ginger and chili pepper. The General Manager of the mine, Mr Alex Kofi Annin, who disclosed this to the Ghanaian Times last Friday, said the facility would give the more than 500 farmers who were growing vegetables as part of an out-grower programme ready local market. He was speaking to the Ghana­ian Times at Gyedu, in the Ahafo Region on the mining company’s contribution to agricultural pro­duction in the country. Mr Annin said since its establishment in 2006, the Newmont Ghana Gold Company Limited (NGGL) had consciously support­ed the development of agriculture within its operational areas, and beyond In keeping with its commitment to generating shared benefit for their host communities. He added that NGGL had supported all the five Municipal and District Assemblies (MDAs) in their catchment area with items. As well as cash worth GH¢337,730 in last year’s farmers’ and fishers’ day celebration. He said, “The Asutifi North District received goods worth GH90,770 for Farmers’ Day last year. Corresponding to that, we provided a financial donation of GH$20,000 to the Ahafo Regional Coordination Council. NGGL donated goods worth GHC 27,000 to honor farmers from the company’s Agricultural Improvement and Land Access Programme (AILAP).” Also Read: Nungua traditional council offers 10-acre land for Borteymanm TVET project in Ghana The General Manager stated that the AILAP aimed to raise agricultural production in the company’s operations areas. As well as promote crop diversification and market access. And ultimately enhance food security, prior to the start of the Ahafo mine. He said that increasing the value of agricultural products would improve farmers’ financial circumstances. As wel as eliminate post-harvest losses, and guarantee the nation’s overall growth. According to Mr. Annin, by upgrading the Asutifi processing service centre, Newmont is committed to being consistent and increasing its contribution to agricultural production in the operational areas. The general manager had high hopes that the significant investment in agriculture would help Ahafo maintain its position as Ghana’s food basket.