Officially, the Konoz (Box Of Treasures) Project has been launched in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. The mixed-use development spans over an area of 50,000 square meters. Furthermore, its design is by Benoy, a multi-award-winning international architect. The development features a luxury hotel as well as residential offerings. In addition to F&B, commercial and retail outlets. Moreover, the project also features an entire entertainment city. The $1.6 billion project’s launch was by Saudi Arabia’s very own, Al Othaim Investment Company, which is in Riyadh. Interestingly, the project’s name draws inspiration from gemstones. As a whole, it strives to convey the architectural as well as visual representation of gemstones. Read Also Agreement signed for Corp Yanbu Hotel and Residence in Saudi Arabia Quite impressively, the project will feature 15,000 square meters of green areas. Parking space will also be available, boasting a capacity for about 5,500 vehicles. Furthermore, the project will feature a commercial center spanning 120,000 square meters. Additionally, it will include 120 serviced residential apartments alongside a 250-key world-class luxury hotel. A 700-unit residential apartment complex will also be a part of the project. While commenting on the launch of the Konoz (Box Of Treasures) Project, Al Othaim company’s group chairman said that it aims to transform the city. Abdullah bin Saleh al othaim also added that the development is well in alignment with the comprehensive Riyadh Strategy. The initiative strives to turn the region into a hub for innovation, investment, and tourism. The project’s unveiling, the Chairman added, serves as a clear indication of the city’s ambitious drive to become a global hub. Most importantly, it underscores the company’s expansion strategy, in regard to solidifying its status as a leader in large-scale development initiatives. As a whole, the project is also immensely driven by the country’s Vision 2030. The scheme aims to transform the whole nation into a diverse and sustainable economy.