The Nuvoco Vistas Corp has officially opened its first All-Women RMX Plant Project. The facility’s location is at Pamohi village right on the outskirts of Guwahati, Assam. Nuvoco is a part of India’s leading business conglomerate – Nirma Group. The leading cement play in East India is the fifth-largest cement group in India. Moreover, the company aims to build a smarter, safer, and more sustainable world. Additionally, Nuvoco strives to be a leading building materials company that delivers superior performance. Over the years, the company has contributed significantly to various notable projects. These include the Nazul Tirtha, Lodha World One, and Aquatic Gallery alongside several Metro Rail projects within the region. The newly inaugurated plant will be operated by eight women. Furthermore, the well-trained staff will handle a wide range of responsibilities effectively. These will include customer relationships, manufacturing concrete of the highest quality, and sales. Moreover, the staff for the All-Women RMX Plant Project will also handle the management of company finances as well as strive to deliver concrete to customers on time. Read Also Tumakuru Industrial Area, 1st Industrial Corridor in South India, set for construction While commenting on the project, Prashant Jha, Chief Concrete & Aggregates at Nuvoco said that the company takes its commitment to building a strong and diverse workforce at all levels. Thus, the project’s launch is a demonstration of the company’s dedication to providing equal employment opportunities. Over the years, Nuvoco revealed that they plan to open more all-women-led RMX plants. More so, throughout different locations. The project strives to provide concrete solutions for various clients. These include developers, government agencies, small contractors, and the general public. Back in 2022, Nuvoco Vistas Corp. Ltd received the prestigious Green Pro Certification for six of its ready-mix concrete plants. The Indian Green Building Council (IGBC-CII) is also known as the GreenproEcolabel. It is accredited by the Global Ecolabelling Network (GEN) through GENICES – GEN’s Internationally Coordinated Ecolabelling system.