Recently, President Cyril Ramaphosa declared a nationwide “state of disaster” in a bid to address the electricity crisis in South Africa. In his state-of-the-nation speech, the president said, “We are declaring a national state of disaster. This will help us to respond to the electricity crisis and its effect.” Even though President Ramaphosa did not offer any new plan to end the crisis, he said that he was appointed a minister of electricity and accelerated the implementation of ongoing power projects. In addition, the president said that they would exempt food producers and other critical industries from power cuts. In layman’s language, the South African energy crisis is an ongoing period of widespread national electricity blackouts that began in late 2007. The cause of the crisis according to Eskom, and various parliamentarians is insufficient electricity generation. Reportedly, most of the existing power plants in South Africa, with a combined capacity of 35,804 MW, were commissioned between 1961 and 1996. In the 21st century, only 9,564 MW of electricity has been added from the Medupi and Kusile power plants the construction of which was long overdue. The construction of these facilities came following the first period of load shedding from 2007 to 2008. The existing fleet of power plants on the other hand was not replaced, therefore they continued to operate past their operational lifespan. According to experts on energy and economics, corruption and mismanagement of Eskom, neglect by Eskom staff, in addition to multiple acts of sabotage and incompetence in the construction of new power plants has exacerbated this energy crisis. The energy crisis in South Africa has had a number of negative impacts on the nation. These range from difficulty in doing business in the country and subsequent reduced economic growth to increased crime rates and political instability. In addition, since level 6 load shedding was introduced repeated periods of load shedding have significantly reduced “the overall happiness of South Africans.” This is according to a study by the University of Johannesburg. To overturn the aforementioned, President Ramaphosa created a broad-reaching strategy that includes a plan to fix existing power stations, introduce renewable energy, and allow private companies to produce power. As part of Ramaphosa’s strategy, currently, there are more than 100 privately owned power plants being developed in the country. Reportedly, the first of these power plants will be connected to the grid by the end of this year. In total, the planned power projects could produce 9 000MW, much of which is for the developer’s own use. Emergency legislation is also being developed to allow the faster approval and development of power plants, while contracts for the construction of power plants that will produce 2,800 megawatts of renewable energy for the grid have been signed. As part of the plans, Eskom will buy 1 000MW of excess energy from private producers in South Africa and import approximately 1 000MW from neighboring countries this year. Furthermore, six of Eskom’s 14 coal-fired power plants have been “identified for particular focus” in a bid to get them to perform more reliably and Efforts to finish incomplete plants and maintenance of other major units made. The time to complete regulatory processes for new plants has also been reduced.