If you’re considering selling your home, there are a few essential things you should think about before listing your house for sale. Even the most minor improvements and upgrades can significantly increase your home’s value. If you are handy and have some free time on your hands, you can even do some of these upgrades yourself and save money. And if not, you can always find a professional to help you – it will pay off with a higher property price. Keep reading to learn more about how to increase the value of your home before selling it. First of all, you should deal with all the minor repairs – they won’t take up a lot of your time, but they will make a huge difference. Moreover, if the appliances around your home are old and outdated, you should consider updating them to more energy-efficient ones. Adding a fresh coat of paint will instantly revive your walls, and this one is kind of implied. Moreover, what you can do is update doors and windows. Also, you shouldn’t forget about the curb appeal and the garden. Even though some minor issues probably won’t impede the house sale, they will still likely add to the overall feeling of the house being run down. To avoid that feeling, you should start with all the minor repairs. These minor issues you can easily deal with include dingy and worn-out walls, peeling paint, broken lightbulbs and dripping taps. Also, you should deal with squeaky floors, stairs or doors, mould, limescale and poorly fitted laminate. As far as most of these are concerned, you don’t need special skills to fix them. Fixing issues such as these will significantly impact the price you can get when selling your home. Switching to new, more modern and energy-efficient appliances might seem unnecessary, but it can, in fact, also bring you more money in sales. How come? Well, easily. The utility bills are lower when you have energy-efficient appliances and features in your home, making it a plausible advantage to prospective buyers. New and energy-saving appliances and features such as lightbulbs look appealing and are simultaneously functional and practical. Houses for sale that are ready to be moved in are in the highest market demand. If you are looking to sell or buy a property in Australia (or wherever in the world essentially), make sure to hire a local buyer’s agent in Sydney, Perth or Melbourne to help you find your fully equipped and furnished dream home. Although adding a fresh coat of paint is implied before selling your home, as it can also increase the value, we think it’s worth mentioning. Painting is considered one of the simplest and most cost-effective home upgrades every homeowner should make to increase a home’s value. Rooms that are freshly painted look clean and updated. When selecting the colour palette for your home, keep in mind that neutral colours appeal to most people. The best thing about painting is that you can do it yourself with some spare time. All you need is paint, brushes, rollers, painter’s tape and drop cloths. You can check out a few YouTube tutorials if you’re unsure how to start. A vital feature of your home that affects how prospective buyers see your home is doors and windows. If the doors and windows in your home are old and worn out, consider replacing them before selling your home. This is not a question of aesthetics only. Namely, quality doors and windows help keep an optimal temperature in your home, decreasing the need for additional heating or cooling, thus lowering these bills. It is also an aspect many prospective buyers appreciate. Of course, if you replace the doors and windows, you can ask for a higher starting price. Another aspect of your home that is separate from the indoors is the curb appeal and the garden. You shouldn’t forget to touch up the curb appeal as it is the first thing buyers see on your home. It is what creates the first impression. And we all know about the importance of first impressions. It’s hard to change a bad first impression. So, you should ensure there isn’t any clutter in front of your house. You should wash the driveway and do some basic landscaping to make it more appealing. Also, you should wash the windows and ensure the exterior paint is not peeling. The same is true for the garden – make it neat and clean. These are just some minor things you can do to increase the selling price of your home. Other, more expensive things can also boost its value, such as redoing the flooring and roofing. Choose things that fit in your budget, but have in mind that these investments will return to you.