The ground-breaking of the first multi-million Tingo foods processing factory in Delta State was celebrated in grand style. The project’s official foundation was laid in Ishiekpe village Onicha-Ugbo, Aniocha North local government area of Delta State. The event, hosted by Nigerian born entrepreneur, Dozy Mmobuosi was attended by distinguished members of Nigeria’s government and business community. Including the minister of agriculture and rural development, Dr. Mohammad Mahmood Abubakar. As well as the monarch of Onicha-Ugbo host community, HRM Obi Chukwumalieze 1, President General of Onicha-Ugbo Patriotic Union, Barr Peter Kogolo and other respected chiefs of the town. Tingo Foods is a subsidiary of Tingo International Holdings Incorporation, which is establishing its food processing facility in Delta State, according to a statement provided to newsmen by Dozy Mmobuosi, the company’s founder. Also Read: Construction of ECOWAS headquarters in Abuja, Nigeria, begins Mmobuosi stated that the project will cost 1.6 billion USD. However, it will spare Africa from having to pay foreign exchange to import finished food goods. Additionally, it would promote trade across Africa through the Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement. As well as help market high-quality and nutritious food items in Nigeria. The factory is expected to start producing in the next 18 to 24 months. Mmobuosi, a well-known software genius, is making the massive investment to give back to Delta, his birth place. He has promised to transform the African food industry and give the millions of young people in Nigeria direct job. As well as significantly boosting the Nigerian economy and advancing the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs aim is to eradicate poverty, safeguard the environment, and guarantee everyone’s prosperity. The job and wealth creation of Tingo foods processing factory will help support SDG 8, Decent Work and Economic Growth, and SDG 2, Zero Hunger. Furthermore, the African food processing sector has recently grown slowly, with low productivity and inefficient use of human resources.