A contract has been awarded for the construction of Molonglo River Bridge, Canberra’s largest of its kind. The contract, which not only covers the construction but also the design of the bridge and associated road and public transport infrastructure, was awarded to B.M.D Construction Pty Ltd by the Federal and ACT Governments. In particular, the contract covers the design and construction of the 227.5-meter-long bridge crossing the region’s largest river and 1.7 kilometers of new arterial roads leading to the bridge. In addition, it covers the design and construction of five new intersections, providing access to the proposed Molonglo Group Centre from Whitlam and future northern suburbs. Public transport has been put into consideration in the $172.7 million project plan. As such the bridge will be capable of supporting a future light rail connection. Two new bus stops and a southbound queue jump bus lane on the northern side of the bridge will also be built to support better access to public transport. Also Read: VIC Metro Tunnel in Australia achieves key milestone Moreover, the project includes important active travel links with off-road shared paths and on-road cycle lanes. These will reportedly encourage more Canberrans to get on a bike to get to their destination. Furthermore, the new Molonglo River Bridge will be integrated with the future Molonglo Commercial Centre. Detailed design for the Molonglo River Bridge will start shortly and is expected to be complete by the end of the year. This will allow the actual construction works to start on the bridge and road approaches, which are expected to open to traffic around the end of the year 2025. While speaking about the project, the Federal Minister of Infrastructure, Transport, Regional Development, and Local Government, Catherine King, said that the project will provide a major economic stimulus to the Canberra region. These will include supporting an estimated 560 jobs during the detailed design and construction phases. The ACT Minister for Transport and City Services, Chris Steel, on the other hand, said that the new bridge will provide a reliable connection for Canberrans in both directions to the City, Belconnen, Weston Creek, and Woden and pave the way for expanded rapid bus routes