Largest indoor snow parks in the world: As snowfalls diminish due to global warming and snow sports are on the rise, the human race has found ways to fill this gap through the construction of indoor snow parks or other ski resorts. Also Read: Snow Oman, the largest indoor snow park in MENA, opened The availability of these facilities has made the snow experience not an only winter but an all-year-round experience. To date there is close to 200 snow parks in the world. In this article we look at the 5 largest based on area coverege. Located in the northeast region of China, Wanda Indoor Ski is the largest of its kind in the world featuring a 72,600 square meters of indoor snow area. The facility also features a 500m long indoor run, the fourth largest of its kind in the world. Reportedly only slopes in France, Germany and the Netherlands are longer. However, its width, 60m, is greater than those at the European canters. The park also features a 380m long black run that is 40m wide and a second shorter black run that descends into the main park. Moreover, Wanda Indoor Ski and Winter Sports Resort has two 40m long easy slopes in a separate area. The facility was opened to the public back in 2017.  Ski Dubai is an indoor ski resort that was opened in November 2005 in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. The facility has a 22,500 square meters indoor ski area. Ski Dubai features an 85-metre-high indoor mountain with 5 slopes of varying steepness and difficulty. These include a 400-metre-long run that is the world’s first indoor black diamond run. Alongside the slopes is a 3,000-square-metre Snow Park play area. The latter comprises sled and toboggan run, an icy body slide, climbing towers, giant snowballs and an ice cave. Built on a hillside, Alpin center was opened in 2001 as one of the biggest leisure attractions in the Ruhrgebiet in Germany. While it is not number one in the list of the largest indoor snow parks in the world, in terms of area coverage, the facility is home to the world’s largest indoor slope that stretches salaciously for some 640M. In addition, Alpin Center has a summer toboggan track, indoor skydiving and reportedly the “highest biergarten of the Ruhr area”.  Big Snow American Dream is located in East Rutherford, New Jersey. The facility was opened on December 5, 2019 becoming the first indoor ski park in North America. The 4-acre park features three trails; a beginner trail dubbed “Lil’ Dipper”, an intermediate trail known as “Switchback”, and an advanced trail called “Northern Lights”. The trail slopes are 300 m long, covering an altitude of 49m and a maximum pitch of 26%. The trails are served by four lifts two of which are carpet lifts serving the Lil Dipper, and a quad chairlift and platter surface lift serving Northern Lights and Switchback trails. In addition, Big Snow American Dream also has a terrain park. Snow planet is an indoor snow recreation center located in Silverdale on the Hibiscus Coast in New Zealand. The facility is the country’s first indoor snow facility. It began working in March 2005. It lies 29 minutes (35 km) north of Auckland city. The park features a 200-metre slope, 50 centimeters of real snow (man-made), three tows, a terrain park for freestyle skiers and snowboarders and a separate learner’s slope. In addition, it has thrilling Snow activities like Snow slides, Snow play area, and Snow dance floor.  Opened in November 2007, Chill Factore is a real snow center located in the Trafford Park area of Trafford, Greater Manchester, United Kingdom. At the time of opening the £31M facility had the largest indoor ski slope in the world. The slope is 180 meters long and 100 meters wide at its widest point. It is served by two drag lifts. Even though the park has been overtaken as the world’s largest, it still holds that title in the UK. In addition to the main slope, Chill Factore features a beginner slope, a luge track, and dedicated snow play and tubing areas. Other activities at the park include Airboarding, Snow scoot and Sledging.