The government intends to develop a cargo airport in Gana. Recently an update on the preliminary work was completed by Ayeh & Ayeh Engineering Consultant. The latter is in charge of the project’s feasibility study. In addition, the company provided justification for the final decision to build the airport in Komenda. Other locations that were considered are Takoradi and Cape Coast. The new cargo airport in Ghana would become Africa’s top location for large-scale aircraft maintenance. The facility will also be used for crew training to enable quick reactions when disasters occur. It will focus mainly on tourism and aviation excellence. The action is in line with the government’s agenda for economic development. In order to significantly increase intra-African trade through the African Continental Free Trade Area (AFCTA). Also Read: Construction of 3rd Tier Tema motorway Interchange in Ghana begins Leslie Alex Ayeh, partner of the firm said, “A thorough spatial survey was carried out on these sites and Komenda was determined to be the ideal spot based on social, environmental, and economic indicators.” Additionally, he said that the cargo airport in Ghana would promote travel, commerce, and connectivity to boost the economy, and create jobs. As well as reduce poverty, and raise standards of living. As part of the project, the Takoradi-Cape Coast Highway will also be upgraded to a double carriageway to make commuting easier. Moreover, a railway connection connecting the two cities would be built to transport cargo to and from Takoradi Harbour and Cape Coast Airport. Furthermore, he said that establishing a civil aviation school would be one of the benefits of education. To offer training in air transport for efficient civil aviation management services. To make the cargo airport a reality, Mrs. Justina Marigold Assan, the Central Regional Minister, asked for the support of stakeholders. She asserted that despite the considerable economical benefits, it was still crucial for enhancing the local condition.