For the purpose of constructing Spotify Camp Nou stadium in Barcelona, Spain, FC Barcelona has hired Limak. Limak is a company based in Turkey. The Camp Nou stadium has been the home field for FC Barcelona since 1957. Limak will be in charge of the restructuring projects, which are expected to start in June after the football season is over. The agreement between FC Barcelona and Limak was signed on January 31 in the Josep Sunyol presidential box by Joan Laporta, president of FC Barcelona, Nihat Özdemir, president of Limak Holdings, and Haldun Fırat Köktürk, a board member of Limak Yatırım. Others who attended the signing ceremony included members of the club’s board of directors, the Turkish ambassador to Spain, Burak Akçapar, and the Turkish consul in Barcelona, Selen Evcit. The chair of Limak Holding, Ebru Özdemir, and the vice president of Limak Holding, Serdar Bacaksız also attended. Read Also: The Santiago Bernabéu Stadium in Madrid, Spain. The president of FC Barcelona, Joan Laporta, stated: “The new stadium will be the crowning achievement of Espai Barça. For the first time since the Olympic Games in 1992, it will revamp and update one of Catalonia’s most significant sporting venues. The legacy we will leave for upcoming generations of Barcelona supporters is the new Spotify Camp Nou.” “Building the new stadium entails a significant professional responsibility for both the Club and Limak. We assume with the highest confidence in our ability to complete it by November 2024. It is the month that also marks Barça’s 125th anniversary.” “The signing opens a new chapter for the Club and for Limak,” said Nihat Özdemir, president of Limak. The enormous responsibility of updating Spotify Camp Nou is something we cherish. It is significant not only to FC Barcelona and its supporters but also to Barcelona and Catalonia.” “This project, which was selected through a competitive tendering process, demonstrates our ability to broaden Limak’s perspectives. We are inspired by this amazing project to build a building that the people of Barcelona can be proud of.