US$25M funding has been announced for the construction, preservation, and acquisition of eight affordable homes in King County. This announcement was made by Dow Constantine, the executive of King County. The funds will come from the Housing Finance Program (HFP) of King County, which is a division of the Department of Community and Human Services (DCHS). The homes in question are Angle Lake Family Housing, Burien II, Spring District, and Ardea at Totem Lake. The others are Sno-Valley Senior Apartments, Northgate, 5th Avenue, and Pacific Apartments Rehab. Developed by Mercy Housing Northwest in SeaTac adjacent to the light rail, the Angle Lake Family Housing development will feature 130 affordable housing apartments. The project will reserve 26 apartments for persons with intellectual and developmental disabilities and their families. This will be done in collaboration with The Arc of King County, a group dedicated to defending the rights of people with disabilities. Burien II is developed by Habitat in Burien. Consisting of 20 units, this development is the second phase of a brand-new, 40-unit affordable housing development spread across nine structures with on-site parking. In addition, the project includes a planned Rapid Ride line and numerous bus routes that are all within a mile of one another. Also Read: Firm selected for implementation of Capital Beltway project in Washington Located at Sound Transit’s Spring District site in Bellevue, BRIDGE Housing’s Spring District will offer 235 affordable transit-oriented housing units. There are a total of 20 units set aside for children and adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Ardea at Totem Lake, Kirkland is a 170-unit affordable housing complex developed by Together We Grow and Imagine Housing. The development will accommodate both senior citizens and veterans. Moreover, it will take advantage of current relationships to offer people a wide range of amenities in addition to recreational opportunities close to both rapid transit and a light rail station that is anticipated to debut this year. Sno-Valley Senior Apartments by Snoqualmie Valley Senior Citizens is a 15-unit senior affordable housing project. It is located close to the Carnation Senior Centre and downtown Carnation. Five of its apartments are set aside for elderly veterans and are intended for one- or two-person senior families. Developed by BRIDGE Housing and Community Roots Housing, the Northgate housing at King County Metro’s Northgate Park and Ride site will have 232 affordable housing units in addition to 24 Law Enforcement Assisted Diversion (LEAD) units. LEAD will collaborate closely with neighborhood organizations to link those in need with community-based services. 15th Avenue housing is situated in Seattle’s Interbay area. It is a 105-unit permanent supportive housing building that will provide accommodation for people who have been homeless for an extended period of time. The development will pay more attention to those who have physical or developmental problems and the elderly. 15th Avenue housing is under the Downtown Emergency Service Centre. Rapid Ride is conveniently close to the complex, providing dependable bus service to downtown Seattle resources. Pacific Apartments Rehab by Plymouth Housing is meant for those who are facing chronic homelessness. This rehabilitation project will result in 89 units of permanent supportive housing. These units will comprise 53 studio and one-bedroom flats complete with full bathrooms and kitchenettes to enhance the quality of life for its occupants.