if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_8',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');Recently, the East African Community obtained Sh175.4 million for a feasibility study on constructing a four-lane Kisumu-Uganda expressway, through Busia in an attempt to improve regional integration, trade, as well as economic development. The 256 kilometer road will end in Kakira, a town in the border district of Jinja, Uganda. It will be assessed for viability using funding availed by the African Development Bank (AfDB). Read also:Old Mombasa Road to be upgraded to the Nairobi Expressway standards The road is part of upgrades to the Northern Corridor, a crucial trade route in East Africa. It gives landlocked nations like Uganda quicker access to the port of Mombasa. According to a statement from Steven Mlote, deputy secretary general for planning and infrastructure for the EAC, the financing from the African Development Bank would be used to carry out feasibility studies on the 256 kilometer international Kisumu-Kisian-Busia/Kakira-Malaba-Busitema-Busia expressway project. The 104 km of the existing road that is currently two lanes of single carriageway will be upgraded to two lanes of dual carriageway. This will be part of the proposed intervention in this section. Kisian in Kisumu will be linked to Busia, a border town, along a 104 km, four lane stretch. As part of the project, an 11 kilometer link road between Kisian and Kisumu would be constructed. Between Jinja and Malaba, another 127 km will be constructed. Additionally, a 20 km section will run along the border to Busia. The high speed highway will link to the $1.48 billion Kampala-Jinja expressway. The highway is expected to launch in 2025. Under the PPP model, a private concessionaire will be acquired for a period of 30 years. It will also include an eight year construction period. The concession will be based on a design build finance operate transfer model, with motorists paying a toll to access the Kampala expressway. It is unclear if the four lane expressway from Kisumu to Uganda will have tolls. The roads are part of the Mombasa-Nairobi-Kampala-Kigali expressway. A top priority was given to the roads during the 4th EAC Heads of State Retreat on Infrastructure Development. The retreat was held in February 2018 in Kampala. The aim is to boost trade while reducing the cost of transport. The economies of East Africa are currently among those in Africa with the fastest rate of growth. Poor transport is often cited as one of the main blocks to business growth. Once these road sections have been repaired, they will have a number of direct positive impacts. Examples of them will be a cut in the cost of operating vehicles and the cost of maintaining the roads. Through the NEPAD IPPF Fund, which helps African countries in planning regional infrastructure projects in energy, transport, ICT, as well as transboundary water, the AfDB is funding feasibility studies for the road sections. In February 2021, the EAC formally requested funding from NEPAD IPPF for consultancy services required to carry out the Multinational Expressway Project’s feasibility studies. As per AfDB rules and procedures, the contractors’ services for the feasibility study were recruited in August 2022 through a Request for Expressions of Interest (EOI) procedure.