A €208 million contract for upgrade and expand an 18 km section (Lot 1) of the Ragusa-Catania highway in Sicily, Italy has been awarded. The contract, which could result to creation of up to 300 jobs, was awarded to Webuild by Italian state road operator ANAS (Gruppo FS Italiane). Around 70 businesses in the supply chain will also be involved. The Lot 1 section is a part of a larger initiative to update the road connecting the two cities. Also known as Ragusana, this section is a vital strategic route through eastern Sicily. The provinces of Ragusa, Catania, and Siracusa are all located along the route that will be improved by this project. It will also reduce travel times, add services, and increase safety. Read Also: Funds allocated for Station Quarter regeneration project in Peterborough According to the terms of the agreement, Webuild will be in charge of widening and upgrading the section of state highways SS 514 and SS 194. The route pass through the municipalities of Ragusa and Chiaramonte Gulfi in the province of Ragusa. It starts at the access roads at SS 115 and ends at SP 5 Licodia Eubea. In addition, this contract calls for the building of a viaduct with a length of more than 500 metres. Additionally, six overpasses and three underpasses will be constructed. It is anticipated that the work will start during the first semester of this year. Ultimately, the highway will broaden from a two-lane route to a highway with two lanes in either direction as well as emergency lanes. According to the company, it is making the construction sites “as sustainable as possible.” It will implement fresh strategies to reduce CO2 emissions caused by various activities, get its electricity from renewable sources, and set up a circular economy system. Webuild is currently constructing Mega Lot 3 of the Ionian Highway in Calabria in southern Italy. It is also involved in carrying out the executive design and construction of sections of four different segments of the high-speed railway between Naples and Bari.