Leading developer, DAMAC Properties, has officially awarded the construction contract for the DAMAC Cavalli Tower Project. The multi-million dollar contract’s scope of work includes the finalization of the main construction works. Thus, the China State Construction Engineering Corporation will further develop the 71-story, ultra-luxury tower. The project’s contract value s approximately $241 million. The luxurious, high-end residential town is within the Dubai Marina. Upon completion, it will feature premier interior designs by Roberto Cavalli, a well-known Italian fashion house. Moreover, the tower will feature breathtaking views of the Palm Jumeriah. Read Also: Danube Elitz Apartments in JVC, Dubai, launched As a result of its super luxury amenities and exceptional floor plant, the project has had great interest. Shaun Killa, an award-winning architect, is responsible for the tower’s design. Impressively, Shaun is also responsible for designing the captivating Museum of the Future in Dubai. The project development value is said to be around $544.9 million. It comprises a total number of 436 units, which are divided into 3 sections. The first section is said to be luxury while the middle section offers upper luxury units. Meanwhile, the top floors provide super luxury finishes as well as features. The project’s upper luxury, as well as luxury sections, will offer access to sky gardens alongside a private sky pool. Meanwhile, the super luxury section will feature a cigar lounge and an exclusive infinity pool. Additionally, the super luxury section will offer access to a private pavilion. The private space will allow residents to host their own private dinner parties. Additionally, every home within the super-luxury section will have its own jacuzzi and/or private pool. All units within the DAMAC Cavalli Tower Project will include sea vistas as well as high ceilings. Furthermore, the project will also include bespoke services such as a la carte housekeeping service and 24-hour butler service.