The Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, officially inaugurated the Shivamogga Airport Project. The brand-new development also features as Karnataka’s newest airport. Within the region, the airport will further boost air connectivity. Furthermore, the lotus-shaped passenger terminal boasts a 300-passenger-per-hour capacity. With a total cost of Rs 450 crore, the airport project aims to boost tourism, especially in the Malnad districts of Hassan, Chikkamagaluru as well as Shivamogga. Reports reveal that already, a private operator has expressed interest in starting commercial operations in March. Read Also: National metro rail knowledge project in India awards contract Back in April 2008, the project’s agreement was signed. For the signing of the Project Development Agreement (PDA), a Special Purpose Company, the Shivamogga Airport Developers Pvt Ltd was established. The PDA was signed by the Infrastructure Development Department (IDD) of the Government of Karnataka. The airport is designed to operate Airbus A320 and Boeing 737-type aircraft. Initially, its completion was due by 2022, however, it got pushed to 2023. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), ahead of its opening, has accorded permission for the operation of commercial flights alongside private aircraft. Thereafter, on February 22, an aircraft from the Indian Air Force landed at the airport, on a trial basis. Its construction was part of a UDAN scheme that strives to make air travel affordable to all. While presenting the Union Budget for 2023-24, Nirmala Sitharaman, the finance minister mentioned that efforts were being invested toward the improvement of regional air connectivity. As a result, in the Budget 2023, the government will develop 50 additional airports, water aerodromes, and heliports. Moreover, the budget also includes the development of advanced landing grounds. Over the past few years, India has generally been carrying out various initiatives such as UDAN for the advancement and boost of regional air connectivity. 