A design and build contract has been awarded for 52 green-certified apartments as part of the Parsellen residential project in Lillestrøm. The contract which is worth $14.06m excluding VAT was awarded to Veidekke by OBOS Nye Hjem and Otto Olsen Boligutvikling. The contract in question covers the implementation of the second phase of the Parsellen residential project in Lillestrøm. The entire project will have 136 housing society apartments whose sizes will range from one to five rooms. The second phase of the Parsellen residential project in Lillestrøm calls for the construction of two buildings with a total height above ground of five and six stories and, respectively, 15 and 37 apartments. Additionally, there will be a lift connecting each apartment to the underground parking garage. Kaare Gilhus of Veidekke Bygg Oslo stated, “We are grateful for the continued support and positive partnership that have been extended to us. The houses are a part of the sizable Kvarteret project. Consequently, we will eventually create a new neighborhood in Lillestrøm with about 1,000 new apartments. We also care about sustainability. Thus, we are very grateful that Parsellen strives to be certified as Very Good in accordance with the BREEAM-NOR environmental standard.” Read Also: Financial Close Announced for Sotra Connection PPP Project in Norway “We are eager to work with Veidekke to further develop Kvarteret. This is because we have been pleased with our collaboration with them thus far. We will make sure Kvarteret is an environmentally conscious community with BREEAM-NOR-certified buildings. The apartments will have energy label B. Consequently if you purchase a home here, there is the possibility for green mortgages in the bank, ” Ingunn A. Randa, EVP for residential development at OBOS, stated. Kvarteret is located on the southern side of Lillestrøm. Thus, it has a long history of being a place with modest industry and residential neighborhoods. Now, this will alter, and many things will be completely rebuilt. Nearly all amenities, including shops, dining options, cultural attractions, and public transportation, are within walking distance of the community’s residents. Oslo Central Station and Gardermoen Airport can be reached by train in 10–14 minutes. Construction has already begun, and it will be finished in December 2024.