The Lumsden Point Port Expansion Project In Australia strives to increase the port’s capacity to export battery metals. These include copper concentrates and lithium. The project also aims to increase the port’s capacity to import renewable energy infrastructure such as blades and wind turbines. The Lumsden Point Port Expansion Project’s contract got awarded to MGN Civil. The marine civil contractor specializes in the construction of sea walls alongside ground improvement, land reclamation, and wick drain installation. Right in the Port of Port Hedland, the project will deliver new multi-user facilities and berths. As a result, it will contribute towards further supporting and boosting renewable industries in Australia and overseas. Read Also: Upgrade of Blue Mountain Rail Line in Australia complete A total of $565 million will be invested into the project by the Federal Government. On the other hand, the Western Australian Government will contribute $96.5 million. The first stage of the project’s development works will feature the construction of two sea walls. Moreover, the project will also construct a new causeway, of which will connect the wharf to a proposed logistic hub. While commenting on the project, the Prime Minister said that the Federal Government’s investment will help unlock investment as well as trade opportunities. Furthermore, Anthony Albanese added, the investment will further drive Australia’s Net Zero future. Meanwhile, the Federal Minister of Infrastructure. Transport, Regional Development, and Local Government said that the project will deliver lasting infrastructure. Moreover, Catherine King noted, it will make great use of local materials as well as expertise, especially for the first seawall. Most importantly, the project will contribute to real short-term employment alongside an economic boost. As identified by Infrastructure Australia, a huge portion of the national infrastructure priority features growing the capacity of Pilbara Ports, 