Residents of Chitungwiza and several stakeholders have voiced their concerns about the ongoing delays in the construction of Muda Dam. Caroline Mutimbanyoka, director of the Sprout Women Empowerment Trust and head of the Muda Dam Movement, urged the government to expedite the construction of the dam to alleviate Chitungwiza’s water problems. if(typeof ez_ad_units!='undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',663,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0');Read also:Soin-Koru Multi-Purpose Dam in Kenya She was speaking recently in Harare at a breakfast meeting for the #GiveLifeToMudaDam campaign. According to Mutimbanyoka, Muda Dam has been the subject of much discussion. She said that one would assume that it has already begun construction if one hears how the project is being talked about. The director stated that they need water and that they want women to be secure when fetching. She added that Mthuli Ncube, the finance minister, had previously pledged to provide funds for feasibility studies. Moreover, he mentioned the Marondera Muchekeranwa Dam, which he said would feed into Chitungwiza. The project is currently expected to be financed by the government. The issue of deadlines is also important. Sheilla Nyasaya, a resident and advocate for water challenges, said that residents were having difficulties as a result of a lack of drinking water. Harare City Council is already having difficulty fulfilling the demands of its residents. This is according to Joy Mabenge, country director of ActionAid Zimbabwe. For women who labor long hours at public water points, having access to adequate water is expected to ease their burden of unpaid work. A representative of the Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on Lands and Agriculture, the legislator for Guruve South, Patrick Dutiro, stated that soon they are likely to embark on a visit after they were invited by the Zimbabwe National Water Authority to tour all the dams under construction as well as hear the challenges that they are facing. He said that then they would be better equipped to respond. He claimed that sanctions make it difficult for them to access funding. Dutiro asked legislators to carefully examine the funds made available for water provision in Parliament. This is with an aim of guaranteeing that they push for the construction of dams. Speaking on behalf of the Chitungwiza Council, Lovemore Meya said that since then, water supplies have improved. Instead of receiving water twice a week, Chitungwiza residents now get 20 megaliters per day.