Mi Vida affordable homes buyers are set to receive financial support from the financer of Pan-African Housing Development Shelter Afrique. Mi Vida affordable homes are developed by private equity firm Actis in a joint venture with Shapoorji Pallonji Real Estate (SPRE). In addition to supporting Mi Vida affordable homes buyers, Shelter Afrique will also cover part of the project’s implementation costs. Mi Vida Homes will initially be developed in Kenya and potentially spread elsewhere. The development will include multiple affordable housing units, including studio apartments the cost of which starts at Sh2.8 million. According to Samuel Kariuki, CEO of Mi Vida, the partnership with Shelter Afrique builds on their current institutional capacity to push urban renewal as well as the provision of affordable housing at scale. The partnership, according to him, will explore demand and supply-side finance solutions. The development and rollout of products that address current issues are a welcome boost. It is said that demand-side financing in particular continues to be a major challenge in the housing value chain. The agreement offers Shelter Afrique an opportunity to carry out its mandate of delivering financial and technical support for housing. Shelter Afrique also gets an opportunity to deliver urban development in Africa. According to the most recent available disclosures, the institution, which is primarily owned by governments, has assets worth Sh20.9 billion in 2021. It is expected that providing financing to buyers will make it easier for households to purchase the property. Without it, it is said that the properties would be out of their price range. The majority of individuals live in Nairobi and other large cities as tenants. Most city dwellers buy their homes with cash or build them slowly over time. The chief executive of Shelter Afrique, Thierno-Habib Hann, acknowledged that Kenya, one of the most developed markets in Africa with a population of 50 million, has just 30,000 mortgage subscribers. He added that the same applies across Africa, while India has a well-developed mortgage sector. He said that such a partnership is important to help them draw fundamental lessons.