Recently, the developers of Houston Constellation Telephone Industries acquired a 20.8-acre site for the development of the 192,306-square-foot speculative industrial project. The developers are Constellation Real Estate Partners and  Cadre investment management firm. J.W. Fields,  a partner at Constellation, described the Houston Constellation Telephone Industries as one of the strongest markets in the country. Especially since the region has exploded with new construction in recent years and its vacancy rate is below 4%. Thus far, the Houston Constellation Telephone Industries site is the third land acquisition/development for the developers over the past 10 months. Zack Taylor of Colliers also worked with Constellation Real Estate Partners in the acquisition of the site that is located at the northeast corner of Beltway 8 and Telephone Road. Also Read Lovett Industrial to develop 610 Business District in Houston Houston Constellation Telephone Industries will consist of two buildings spanning a total of 192,306 square feet. While the first building will occupy 93,813 square feet, the second building will be 98,493 square feet. The developers plan on building a rear-load industrial project featuring 28’ clear heights and extra land for parking and storage. In addition, the facility will feature Beltway 8 frontage, along with several points of entry and exit. It will also provide an ESFR sprinkler system and LED lighting. Seeberger Architecture is responsible for the design of the Houston Constellation Telephone Industries. The project’s location, access, visibility, and design were selected to suit the requirements for distribution, fulfillment, e-commerce, and light industrial users. It offers tenants industrial spaces ranging between  20.8k sf to 98.5k square feet. The developers expect the project to commence by the second quarter of 2023, with its delivery set for Q1 2024. Taylor and John Nicholson of Colliers will handle leasing arrangements for the new Constellation Telephone development.  According to the developers, the property offers features that have historically been in high demand in the Houston logistics market. Therefore, the tenants will have access to  modern, rear-load space with Beltway frontage and exceptional access